MUTARE Sports Club will be the place to be this weekend as it hosts matchday five of the 2023 edition of the Paramount Garments Senior Rugby Championship League on Saturday. The bumber fixtures programme will see all the league's eight teams, headlined by log leaders Old Hararians to the relegation-threatened minnows, making the trip to the Eastern Highlands.   The main match of the afternoon will see defending champions and current leaders Old Hararians clashing against the hosts Mutare Sports Club at 4pm. Old Hararians will head into the encounter brimming with confidence after they overcame the absence of several first-team stars to romp to a dominant 90-0 win against winless University of Zimbabwe (UZ) at Harare Sports Club last weekend. The victory meant OH maintained their position at the top of the log standings on 25 points from four matches.   Mutare Sports Club, who are second from bottom on the log on four points from three matches, had a bye last weekend but face a tough task on their return to action against a well-oiled Old Hararians side. The match between the hosts and Old Hararians will be preceeded by another potentially explosive encounter between Old Georgians and Pitbulls. Old Georgians are third on the log on 12 points from their opening three matches while Pitbulls are a place behind on 10 points from their opening three matches. Newboys Old Crestonians will be aiming to capitalise on home advantage when they clash with a strong Harare Sports Club in the other match lined up for this weekend.   Second-placed Harare Sports Club will head into the encounter hoping to continue their good run after they kept in touch with the leaders OH following an impressive 74-0 win against an improving Police Defenders side. Harare Sports Club were also without several first-team players who were part of the Harare Select side which played out a thrilling 18-18 draw against the High Performance U20, which is made up of Zimbabwe U20 national team players, who are preparing for the upcoming World Cup. Meanwhile, Police Defenders will be eager to bounce back to winning ways when they square off against the league's basement side University of Zimbabwe. The match kicks off at 11am.