ZIMTILE, a division of PG Industries, on Friday commissioned a modern concrete brick-manufacturing facility at its Adelaide Park factory, Harare, in an effort to increase its market share in the country. The new facility, on which the business spent close to US$1 million, has a daily production capacity of up to 500 000 concrete bricks.   The commissioning of the plant, according to Zimtile's chief operating officer Innocent Taru, validates the company's adoption of digitalisation in manufacturing processes. “This brick-making plant has a daily production capacity of up to 500 000 concrete bricks or pavers. This capacity adds to the already existing daily capacity of 200 000 bricks at other production centres in Harare (Southerton branch), Bulawayo and Masvingo which started in 1996, 1997 and 2014 respectively,” Taru said. “The company's concrete roof tiles daily production capacity stands at 100 000 units for the two production centres in Harare and Bulawayo.”   Local Government and Public Works deputy minister Marian Chombo, who was the guest of honour at the event, applauded Zimtile for its role in promoting infrastructural development in the country. “The coming in of Zimtile to Epworth, complements government efforts in upgrading and modernisation of Epworth through the regularisation programme which culminated in His Excellency President Emmerson Mangangwa issuing title deeds to qualified stand owners in Epworth,” she said. “Indeed, the project has come at a very opportune time and I urge the company to prioritise the employment on merit of people from Epworth. It is important to note that key priority areas in the national development matrix and quest to improve the standard of living of Zimbabweans include contribution to home ownership as well as access to modern and affordable housing.” Chombo added: “These capacities and distribution networks are a development that leaves no one and no place behind, demonstrative of the centrality of the company and the private sector at large in the country’s pursuit of the reviewed target of one million housing units by 2025.”   Epworth Local Board town secretary Wilton Mhanda said he believes the coming on board of Zimtile in the area will bring meaningful investment in the construction of modern houses in Epworth. “This meaningful investment will complement the drive that we have for the construction of standard houses under the regularisation exercise through the availability of materials such as tiles, bricks, pavers. Materials are locally provided, cutting transport costs and time,” he said. The brick maker exports some of its products to Zambia, Democratic Republic of Congo and Malawi.