YADAH . . . . . . . . . . . 0 NGEZI STARS . . . (1) 1   NGEZI Platinum Stars coach Takesure Chiragwi could not hide his joy after his side laboured to a hard-fought away victory over an exciting Yadah side to return to the top of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League log in this intriguing title race. The Mhondoro Ngezi based side is one of the teams known for playing exciting football this far in the season, but had to work hard yesterday for a narrow win at the National Sports Stadium. Nigel Makumbe’s goal after eleven minutes when he expertly connected a cross from Walter Vuwa was the major difference in a game the home side dominated possession.   The result means Chiragwi's men move back to the top of the log standings with 23 points, one over overnight leaders Highlanders. Chiragwi admitted his side had won in obdurate fashion, but said “it’s sometimes necessary to win ugly”. “We managed to win the game in the first half. We know this Yadah team can play, they are a very good side in terms of keeping possession. We managed to get an early goal and that gave us an advantage. “Credit to Yadah. They played very well but we also needed to play with caution because we were one-nil up and we really needed to consolidate that lead. We did that, which is important. Sometimes you need to play ugly football and get a result, that is what is important. We know we can also play but if you know the opponent is better than you then you have to accept and make sure you do what makes you to win the match. That is exactly what we did and we are happy because we collected three points,” Chiragwi said.   Yadah remain on 11th position with 14 points. This is a match they deserved at least a point, but their failure to put away numerous decent chances created throughout the game cost them big time. The visitors’ goalkeeper Nelson Chadya also made some good saves to keep his side in the game, while his opposite Panashe Nyabunga made one brilliant stop from a one-on-one situation to deny Tinotenda Murasiranwa early in the second half. Despite the loss, Yadah coach Expense Chitukutuku was full of praise for his players who did almost everything right, but scoring. “I'm impressed with the way my guys are improving. Today they showed they are comfortable playing this ball-passing game against a strong team like Ngezi which is good. We outclassed Ngezi especially in the second half, unfortunately goals didn't come,” Chitukutuku said. Teams Yadah: P Nyabunga, B Kadamanja, C Moffat, J Zindoga, T Musariri, C Mandivei, E Saidi, M Mlilo, B Ndereki, V Sango, W Kamudyariwa Ngezi Platinum Stars: N Chadya, K Chigwida, G Madhake, P Moyo, T Musariranwa, F Madhanaga, T Mandinyenya, N Makumbe, L Kashitigu, T Benhura, W Vuwa