HUMANITY has come a long way over the millennia in how we farm and grow crops with the introduction of various technologies. As the world population continues to grow and land becomes more scarce, people have become creative and more efficient about how to farm, using less land to produce more crops and increasing the productivity and yield of those farmed acres.   Worldwide, agriculture is a US$5 trillion industry, and now the industry is turning to artificial intelligence (AI) technologies to help yield healthier crops, control pests, monitor soil and growing conditions, organise data for farmers, help with workload, and improve a wide range of agriculture-related tasks in the entire food supply chain. AI helping analyse farm data Farms produce hundreds of thousands of data points on the ground daily. With the help of AI, farmers can now analyse a variety of things in real time such as weather conditions, temperature, water usage or soil conditions collected from their farm to better inform their decisions. For example, AI technologies help farmers optimise planning to generate more bountiful yields by determining crop choices, the best hybrid seed choices and resource utilisation.   AI systems are also helping to improve harvest quality and accuracy — what is known as precision agriculture. Precision agriculture uses AI technology to aid in detecting diseases in plants, pests, and poor plant nutrition on farms.  AI sensors can detect and target weeds and then decide which herbicides to apply within the right buffer zone. This helps to prevent over application of herbicides and excessive toxins that find their way in our food. Farmers are also using AI to create seasonal forecasting models to improve agricultural accuracy and increase productivity. These models are able to predict upcoming weather patterns months ahead to assist decisions of farmers. Seasonal forecasting is particularly valuable for small farms in developing countries as their data and knowledge can be limited. Keeping these small farms operational and growing bountiful yields is important as these small farms produce 70% of the world’s crops. Using AI to grow avocados In addition to ground data, farmers are also taking to the sky to monitor the farm. Computer vision and deep learning algorithms process data captured from drones flying over their fields. From drones, AI enabled cameras can capture images of the entire farm and analyse the images in near-real time to identify problem areas and potential improvements. Unmanned drones are able to cover far more land in much less time than humans on foot allowing for large farms to be monitored more frequently.   AI tackles the labour challenge With less people entering the farming profession, most farms are facing the challenge of a workforce shortage. Traditionally farms have needed many workers, mostly seasonal, to harvest crops and keep farms productive. However, as we have moved away from being an agrarian society with many people living on farms to now huge numbers of people living in cities less people are able and willing to tend to the land. One solution to help with this shortage of workers is AI agriculture bots. These bots augment the human labour workforce and are used in various forms. These bots can harvest crops at a higher volume and faster pace than human labourers, more accurately identify and eliminate weeds, and reduce costs for farms by having a round the clock labour force. Additionally, farmers are beginning to turn to chatbots for assistance. Chatbots help answer a variety of questions and provide advice and recommendations on specific farm problems. Chatbots are already being used in numerous other industries with great success. Through the use of AI and cognitive technologies farms across the world are able to run more efficiently, with less workers than before while still meeting the world’s food needs. There is no more fundamental need than the need for food, and this will never go away. Fortunately, the use of AI will allow farms of all sizes to operate and function keeping the world fed. Through the use of agricultural AI and cognitive technologies, farms across the world are able to run more efficiently to produce the fundamental staples of our dietary lifestyles.