THE 1984 hit song by Rod Stewart, Some Guys Have All The Luck, aptly describes a family from Rusape which has won a record 11 times in the OK Grand Challenge Jackpot promotion. The Muhle family won their 11th car at the OK Grand Challenge held in Harare over the weekend.   This family’s luck is nothing but phenomenal, having won three cars in the 2018 OK Grand Challenge. Head of the family, Clemence Muhle, runs a pharmacy in Rusape and the family did not attend this year’s grand challenge. At this rate, it would not be a surprise, in years to come, if they win the OK Grand Challenge grand prize, which was this year grabbed by Virginia Dende from Kadoma, who took delivery of a brand new US$60 000 Ford Ranger doube-cab.   Just like the Muhle family, she too did not physically attend the draw held in front of thousands of people at the Borrowdale Racecourse. This year’s grand challenge promotion, which ran from April 5 to June 3, saw a record 12,1 million entries as shoppers tried their luck on the over US$1 million prizes on offer, among them over 40 Nissan NP200 trucks and other in-store awards. The prizes came from OK’s diverse network of suppliers, including Eversharp, Olivine, Croco Motors and Duly’s, to name a few. The OK Grand Challenge has arguably become the biggest and longest retail promotion in Zimbabwe.   Speaking at the event, OK Zimbabwe chief executive officer Maxen Karombo said the grand challenge has grown to be the biggest and most memorable brand promotion south of the Sahara. “The aim of the Grand Challenge is to give our customers the biggest savings in the year through discounts,” he said. “As we close this year’s edition we start to plan for a bigger, better version of the OK Grand Challenge 2024. To remain true to our heritage, we have purposed to now make happiness tangible by planting smiles on our employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders and the communities we operate in. This thinking guides us in defining our ways of working with all the key stakeholders.” Down To Business won the US$70 000 OK Grand Challenge horse race. OK Zimbabwe continues to grow its branch network under diverse brands like OK Stores, OK Mart, Bon Marché and the recently acquired Food Lovers.