LIFE presents many possibilities and the world is full of choices. There is right and wrong, good and evil. Achieving your goals demands eschewing the wrong, bad and evil choices.   For starters, success calls for pursuing the right choices. However, real success goes beyond picking right choices because there are many right choices which are not consistent with your purpose and destiny. The battle should not be to grab opportunities, but running away from good offers that will distract you from your purpose and the real fabric of life. What are you prepared to forego and run away from? Make a deliberate effort to abstain from things that will choke your calling.   You cannot make it without sacrificially turning your back to enticing offers that are meant to derail you. You have to have values and something to stand for. I like how Jesus stuck to His calling. We read Luke 22:41-42: “[41] And he was withdrawn from them about a stone’s cast, and kneeled down, and prayed, [42] Saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done.” This was the prayer of Jesus in the garden of Gethsemane as He was about to enter into His passion.   Here is how the writer of Hebrews recounts it. Hebrews 5:7, says: “Who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared.” Please note that Jesus was heard although He went on to die. His mission required that He had to die for our sins. As we have just seen, Jesus got the grace to go through death. Although He could do otherwise, He chose the will of the Father which was His destiny and purpose. It is not every opportunity that comes your way that you should grab. You may waste your time chasing other people’s dreams and leave your vision crying for takers. Be focussed and know what you should and shouldn’t run after. When the devil sees that you will make it, he gives you rosy options thereby assassinating your purpose. Because of the current global economic challenges, people are picking up anything that comes as long as there is money. Many are falling for anything as long as there are high returns and profits to be realised. As long as they get food, clothing and shelter they say any gun can shoot. You need moral values and principles to adhere to. At the beginning of His ministry, Jesus had an offer from the devil that He would not have to suffer to make it. In one of the temptations, Satan offered Jesus the option of worshipping him in exchange of the world and it's glory. Matthew 4:8-10 reads: “[8] Again, the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain, and sheweth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them; [9] And saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me. [10] Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.” Jesus stuck to His calling and purpose. Refuse any lucrative offer that displaces you from your calling. Because of technological advancement, we are exposed to a wide range of options. The television, smartphone and many other gadgets have so much to offer. There are so many types of food and drink to choose from. Clothes of different designs and cuts are on offer. There are boyfriends and girlfriends of all races, age, marital status and deplorably of both sexes. You now easily have access to a male boyfriend even if you are male and a female partner even if you are female. There are many political parties to belong to. The church is not left out for many denominations and ministries have sprout. Indeed the list of choices is endless to the point of confusing you if you don't have principles to abide with. Making it under these circumstances depends on the power to walk away from the wrong choice. Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy, to the only wise God our Saviour, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and ever. Amen. Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge.