By Praise Dumi Dlakama HIGHLANDERS . . . . . . (1)1   BULAWAYO CHIEFS . . . . .0   DYNAMOS . . . . . . . . . . . .2(3)   ZPC KARIBA . . . . . . . . . . . .0 Mbongeni Ndlovu was the hero of the day as his 19th minute headed goal was enough to send Highlanders back to the top of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League log standings. Bosso had drawn five matches in a row and the victory came as a relief to the restless supporters. Darlington Mukuli did well to collect the ball from a corner and found Peter Muduhwa who combined with Ndlovu whose header beat Khulekani Dube in goal for Bulawayo Chiefs.   Bulawayo Chiefs had the first opportunity when Farawu Matare was played through by Obriel Chirinda in the 8th minute but he shot wide from a tight angle. In the 41st minute Matare was tripped outside the box but by Danny Phiri's shot from the resultant freekick was straight at Ariel Sibanda. The best opportunity of the day fell to Elshamar Farasi in 66th minute but the youngster was perhaps overeager and blazed over. Bosso fans groaned. Prince Ndlovu almost introduced himself with a goal in the 85th minute but his shot went over the crossbar with Bosso looking for a second goal. Bosso coach Baltemar José de Oliveira Brito was understandably pleased with victory which he said ‘silenced critics.’ “Yeah, we won. The people were criticising too much, but it looks like even after five draws we are still close to the top. We won today, we didn’t draw. Maybe that is something that changed today,” he said. “But if we look at the past when we came here, how many years have Highlanders failed to stay at the top? How many years have Highlanders failed to win away? How many years they have failed to win the league? But the people are quick to criticise but you look at the team without the respect of these amazing players.” Added Brito: “What kind of investments were made? So, we are doing our job (but) even in bad moments, the people should respect these boys. They had five draws but they keep fighting and we are still closer to the top.” In another Castle Lager Premier Soccer League played at the National Sports Stadium, Dynamos beat visiting ZPC Kariba 3-0. Teams Highlanders: Ariel Sibanda, Calvin Chigonero (Prince Ndlovu 81'), Ray Lunga (Stanley Ngala 68'), McKinnon Mushore (Mason Mushore 85'), Brighton Manhire, Andrew Mbeba, Elshamar Farasi (Washington Navaya 81'), Peter Muduhwa, Darlington Mukuli Darlington Mukuli  Archiford Faira, Mbongeni Ndlovu. Bulawayo Chiefs: Khulekani Dube, Nixon Gama, Mthokozisi Msebe, Ayanda Ncube (Mandla Gasela 82'), William Stima, Obriel Chirinda (Billy Vheremu 69'), Malvin Mkolo, Brian Rusinga, Danny Phiri, Felix Moyo (Kuda Musharu 69'), Farah Matare.