GWERU councillors have accused management of allegedly dragging its feet in selling repossessed stands, while in Mashonalnad West, Karoi Town Council has reversed its decision to repossess undeveloped housing stands following a standoff with residents. Gweru councillors unanimously agreed that management should start selling serviced stands to generate money to undertake some of its capital projects.   Mayor Hamutendi Kombayi expressed disappointment with management for not selling repossessed serviced stands. “I am not impressed that as a local authority we are not selling repossessed serviced land to generate income to meet some of our capital projects,” he said. “We always hear from management that there is need to get permission from the Local Government minister before they can sell that land. But the law is clear on the sale of serviced stands and other local authorities like Harare and Bulawayo are selling serviced land, while we are sitting on the issue.”   Acting town clerk Livingston Churu, however, said: “Since council put that issue in black and white, we expect the minister (Local Government) to formally communicate on the sale of that land.” Ward 10 councillor Charles Chikozho said: “The law is just clear, there is no need for authority from the minister to sell serviced stands. Council cannot sell unserviced land, but if it serviced I don’t see what is stopping council from selling the land so that we can get money to buy some of the equipment we need like graders and pumps, among others.” Meanwhile, Karoi Town Council has reversed a decision to repossess undeveloped housing stands following a standoff with residents. The town had pegged June 5 as the deadline to repossess more than 1 000 undeveloped stands in Kubatana medium-density suburb.   “In light of our earlier notice to sell the repossessed stands in Kubatana, council has made a decision to give more time to thebeneficiaries to regularise their stands. This entails coming in person to reclaim your stand, clear all the rates and dues to the council,” partly read a notice sent to residents. Council also said beneficiaries should approach the housing department for elaboration. “The above matter must be done within 14 working days starting from June 7 to 27, 2023,” further read the notice. Karoi council decided to reverse the repossessions following heated confrontations with residents who accused council of making ill-informed decisions. The stands were allocated in 2008. Council chairperson Abel Matsika said: “As council, we have stands that cannot be accounted for as the so-called owners are untraceable without any structures, rate payment and even the land itself has not been paid for for several years.”