SUNGURA music rapture is already erupting across the City of Mutare, with fans set to have a unique glance of their superhero Alick Macheso performing at the Platinum Bar on June 10, 2023, in what could be the biggest show in the province. Macheso will be celebrating his 55th birthday and launching his sons’ album. His sons, Esau and Tinotenda, will be part of the musical cast, as they launch their debut album called Pahukama Hwedu.   Talented guitarist and vocalist Progress Chipfumo will also be a star attraction at this show, which has already become talk of the city as ecstatic audiences in Mutare and Mozambique look forward to the gig. Macheso commands a huge following in Mozambique and his fans always cross the eastern border each time he performs in Mutare. What makes this show very special is the fact that Macheso will bring his latest album  Tinosvitswa Nashe  to Mutare for the second time to quench the thirst of his die-hard fans that have been eagerly waiting for a second bite of the cherry.   The album has received substantial airplay and massive recognition across the divide. In an interview with NewsDay Life & Style on Thursday, Orchestra Mberikwazvo band spokesperson Tich Makahamadze said all was in place for the potentially explosive show. “Yes, we will be in Mutare this Saturday and as usual we are promising our fans fireworks. But this time around, the show is very special because Macheso will be holding his birthday celebrations in Mutare,” said Makahamadze. “Then it is also a special day because his sons will be officially launching their new album. So we are inviting the fans to come in their numbers and support this initiative,” he added.   Platinum Bar owner Isau Mupfumi said Macheso returned to the giant entertainment house on a special day. “This will be a special day for people of Mutare and the whole province. This show will mark the birthday of a man who is loved by thousands of people. The show is also very special because his sons will be launching their album at the venue,” Mupfumi said. “It is, therefore, worthwhile for the fans to come in their numbers to enjoy this special day. As Platinum Bar, we are playing our part to cement our relationship with our revellers,” he added.