ACADEMIC writer Sizimisele Sibanda (49), born in Gweru and bred in Bulawayo, says her recently published book My Walk of Faith speaks to people who feel like they want to give up on life. Sibanda told NewsDay Life & Style that the book is talking to those people who are going through a lot and are starting to lose hope.   “The book My Walk of Faith was published in December 2022. It is a true life motivational story about myself targeted at those people who feel like they want to give up in life,” she said. “Those people who are going through life’s tumultuous journey and need the hope that one can still go on regardless of what a person can be going through or is going through. “It gives hope to someone who is hopeless, hope through what someone else went through and is still going through, and hope to never give up no matter what comes our way in life.”   Sibanda said the book also highlighted that through God, nothing is impossible, hence there is always light at the end of the tunnel. “It also talks about how God can take one from ‘grass to grace’ regardless of one’s upbringing. You can still soldier on and become something in life from a humble background. There is hope at the end of the road, regardless of what we may go through in life,” she said. Sibanda pointed out that she wrote the book to help people to hold on and not throw in the towel. “My motivation as a believer was the Holy Spirit. I believe God wants to use my story to encourage both believers and non-believers that we must never give up in life. We must keep trusting and keep moving, looking unto Jesus the author and perfecter of our faith,” she said.   “This is my first book and it has  received some objective feedback from a few people who have read it.” One of the people who gave feedback on the book, Sibonisiwe Moyo, said the autobiography was an inspiration and an encouragement to those who had lost hope. Moyo said the gruelling experiences the author went through were motivational, especially to single mothers that they could stand on their own, have faith and trust in the Lord for everything. She said: “The story also enlightens and gives insight into what is happening beyond the borders, that is, it is not all that glitters which is gold. It reveals the strength and courage of a woman who stood against all odds to become what she is now.” Moyo believes the novel can be used as a literature setbook in schools as it has many life lessons.