It was a day of setting records at Harare Sports Club yesterday where the Zimbabwe national cricket team produced their biggest win in the 50 over format, mauling the United States by a massive 304 runs. Their win was anchored by Sean Williams, who recorded his highest One Day International score of 174 from just 101 balls which featured 21 boundaries and five sixes to help Zimbabwe get to their highest total of 408 runs in this format.   Zimbabwe’s previous highest total was against 351 achieved against Kenya in January 2009. They then bundled out the associate side for 104 runs in just 25.1 overs. Richard Ngarava (2 for 25), Brad Evans (1 for 20), Sikandar Raza (2 for 15), Luke Jongwe (1 for 21) and Ryan Burl (1 for 18) suffocated the US batters, serenaded by the cheering crowd.   The win was also the second biggest by runs in ODIs globally, behind the 317 win by India against Sri Lanka on January 15 this year. It was also the highest-ever total at Harare Sports Club. They produced a superb show which would further boost their already high levels of confidence ahead of the Super Six matches which they will play in Bulawayo. Zimbabwe went into the match having already qualified while the US had already been eliminated, but the Chevrons were in no mood to take their foot off the proverbial pedal.   Joylord Gumbie missed out on a first century when he was dismissed on 78 after facing 103 deliveries while Sikandar Raza fell two runs short of another half-ton off 27 balls. Ryan Burl was particularly brutal as he plundered 47 runs from just 16 balls where he heaved four maximums and hit the boundary on three occasions. He was out attempting to equal AB De Villiers’ record of the fastest 50 in 16 deliveries. Tadiwanashe Marumani, in his first appearance in the tournament, hit an unbeaten 18 runs from six balls to push the Chevrons past the 400-run mark. It was a tough day for the hapless US bowlers, with Jessy Singh getting hammered for 97 runs in 10 overs while Abhishek Paradkaras was brutalised for 78 in nine overs, despite claiming three wickets. Nosthush Kenjige hemorrhaged 62 from 10 overs with Usman Rafiq ending with an economy of 10 per over after leaking 40 runs from just four overs. Williams, who was the stand-in skipper in the absence of Craig Ervine, said he was particularly pleased with the intensity with which Zimbabwe played. “Having the greats of the game around today, Andy (Flower) and all of you there inspires us. It's very pleasing and obviously having four new players in our team I think it was really good, the intensity that they showed from the ball upfront was also bang on,” Williams said before adding that they will be looking to ride on the momentum in the Super Six stage. “I think we have been trying against Pakistan to play with this pattern and will look to play as a country.  All of the guys are starting to slowly fit in and understand that pattern. I think the multiple contributions from each and every individual really pleased me. All those small contributions played a massive part. Even in thefielding as well I thought picking up three run-outs in a game is work in the right direction. I think we don't have to change much in our game. We have found our momentum and we are looking forward to carrying it. Obviously, it's a different venue, and everything about it is different but still having that crowd behind us is always like having a 12th man.” US captain Monank Patel said they had been taught a tough lesson by their hosts but thought they could have done better. “We haven't played our best cricket and I feel like mentally we need to be strong and come back stronger in the next game. Our batting department has been struggling and we got a few chances dropped, otherwise it would have been less than 400 but still I would say lots of learnings from this game. One by one everyone started to get the flu in the last two days. Our main bowlers Ali Khan and Saurabh got the (flu), I think they will recover in a couple of days and I am looking forward to the next game. I think we should be able to play with our best 11,” he said.