CANDIDATES seeking election into public office need to keep themselves abreast with the electoral processes, particularly the nomination process to avoid a repeat of what was observed last week where candidates, mostly from the opposition, appeared to have been caught flat footed, as it were. In most instances it was observed that candidates reported late and with inadequate documents to lodge their candidature.  The same was not observed among Zanu PF candidates right from the President down to council candidates because the ruling party took time ahead of the sitting of the nomination courts, to induct its candidates on procedures such that come nomination day, they were all well prepared.    After President Emmerson Mnangagwa proclaimed the election date, it was obvious the next step would be nomination of candidates, so the opposition ought to have ensured all candidates had the requisite resources ready, the issue of steep nomination fees aside.  In addition,  candidates should have been clearly told where to lodge their papers. We found it rather absurd that some candidates reported at the wrong stations when the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission had flighted notices advising that the High Court in Harare would serve as the nomination court for presidential candidates, provincial magistrates courts (National Assemby, party list candidates for Senate, National Assembly, women and youth quotas), and metropolitan and provincial councils, and council offices for local authority councillors, and party lists for the 30% women’s quota. In Harare, for instance, it was observed  that quite a number of prospective candidates and their parties appeared not to be fully aware of the nomination requirements which resulted in some being asked to rectify anomalies on the papers they had submitted.  Due to the large number of prospective candidates intending to file their candidacy, the nomination court sitting had to be extended to the following day including the time for payment of nomination fees, but still some candidates could not meet the requirements.   Opposition candidates, mostly for CCC as well as MDC-T arrived at the courts a few minutes before the deadline, with inadequate documents and nomination fees, causing unnecessary delays whereas the process should have gone without incident had they filed their papers well in advance. Also, incidents of candidates turning up at wrong courts could have been avoided had the parties properly inducted them on the processes. We strongly believe it’s the duty of political parties and their chosen candidates to fully acquaint themselves with the nomination requirements,  submit their papers ahead of time, and strengthen intra-party democratic processes to avoid the fielding of double candidates. Parties should partner with Zec, independent electoral watchdogs and civil society organisations in providing voter education to minimise such embarrassing glitches as were observed last week.