FOR many years, local artistes have been criticised for lacking an identity in their sound that can be recognised as Zimbabwean on a global stage as compared to the dominating Afro beats which have their origins in Nigeria and are easily recognisable as Nigerian sound. It has been argued by music critics that sungura is the indigenous identity sound, while others are of the view that traditional music, which includes mbira and other African instruments, is the authentic Zimbabwean sound.   However, Zimbabwe seems to have few artistes that pursue sungura and traditional music as compared to those who adopt the foreign sound. Some critics have also argued that the failure by the majority of Zimbabwean artistes to embrace and evolve their original sound, which is unique like sungura, or the traditional sound fused with mbira could be the stumbling block in breaking through internationally because of lack of authenticity. Local music producer, Austin “Decco Beats” Munyaradzi of Real Music Productions believes that the younger generation should be encouraged to love and embrace their culture.   Decco Beats told NewsDay Life & Style that it is important for the younger generation of music producers to make it a habit to create a sound that incorporates traditional instruments. In his effort to promote traditional instruments, Decco Beats has released a Zimdancehall riddim with traditional instruments titled Zimdancehall Culture. “Zimbabwe has a problem of identity crisis. This affects our music as many artistes, especially the young, are not making original music, but mimicking Western or Jamaican music, which makes it hard for them to penetrate the international market,” he noted. “I have now started a movement to promote a tradition of loving our culture and instruments. Our music stable has released a Zimdancehall culture riddim that has instruments such as mbira, marimba and hosho. We expect the majority of musicians to do the same and they should be creative.”   Decco Beats said he would be releasing a medley with visuals for this Zimdancehall culture riddim that will show artistes’ cultural dressing and setting. “It is worrisome to note that our culture is being eroded and it might end up being wiped away by the influence from abroad. The Zimdancehall culture riddim is a way to safeguard culture,” he said. “I believe every single step that we take will help us achieve our goal. We will continue this journey we have started to make sure Zimbabweans embrace and create their own distinct sound.”