IT’S now clear that President Emmerson Mnangagwa and his Zanu PF acolytes are only interested in power, yet they are clueless about solving the problems the ordinary Zimbabweans are facing. It is clear that former President Robert Mugabe was not the problem as Information minister Monica Mutsvangwa tries to make the people believe during Press briefings when she claims they are working day and night to correct the mess that was created by Mugabe. Six years after he was deposed through a coup d'état, they still claim to be undoing what Mugabe did. God forbid.   These are naked lies which we don’t even want to hear because it’s clear that Zanu PF leaders have failed dismally to solve the problems they created. All they want is to remain in power by hook or by crook, which does not auger well for future generations. As the situation stands, the prices of basic commodities have skyrocked beyond the reach of many. It’s a total disaster. Why is Zanu PF messing up our lives as if it owns this country? - Citizen   Zim dearly misses Mugabe ZANU PF bigwigs flooded Masvingo province at the weekend flaunting their ill-gotten wealth as they drove top-of-the-range all-terrain vehicles amid a sea of poverty. This shows that the ruling party does not care about the mess it has created for the majority. If anyone had any doubt that the Zanu PF-led regime has long lost interest in the welfare of ordinary Zimbabweans the Masvingo spactacle should be a rude awakening. Last Saturday, top Zanu PF chefs were outdoing each other flaunting wealth, while citizens can barely survive.   Zimbabweans were reminded of the late former President Robert Mugabe’s disclosure that the country lost US$15 billion in diamond revenue. It boggles the mind to see  party bosses parading top-of-the-range all-terrain vehicles amid poverty-stricken citizens, mostly vendors, who survive on less than a dollar a day. - Sarudzai Mwano ‘No to another empty victory’ PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa’s 2023 presidential bid is an exercise in futility. At 80 years, Mnangagwa, even if he wins the polls on August 23, the victory will be hollow. The thousands of people turning up at his rallies are not a guarantee that he will win the presidency. However, be that as it may, most people are convinced that if Mnangagwa wins the coming polls, things will get worse. No positive change will come. Mnangagwa remains the face of Zimbabwe’s problems. He is the man who presided over the decay of our economy. He is ignoring high-profile corruption bedevilling our country such as the  one exposed by Gold Mafia and misuse of COVID-19 funds. Under his leadership, the  local currency has been reduced to toilet paper. He has failed to uphold the right to property. I don’t see the youth, the majority voters in the country putting the future of the country in the hands of a man who has ruined their future. Mnangagwa deserves to rest. There is no miracle Mnangagwa can perform to improve the status quo in the country. The man is failing to stamp his authority at party level and it boggles the mind to see people pinning their hopes on such a failure. Zanu PF is holding itself and the country hostage by giving him another chance to contest for the presidency. Even the dullest person can see his shortcomings. As we approach the August 23 polls, people must realise that a Mnangagwa presidential victory will be a recipe for disaster. Let us determine our future. I challenge the Zanu PF youths to be serious about the destiny of this country. Even Zanu PF structures must wake up. Enough is enough. As long as Mnangagwa remains President, people will continue to suffer. Let us change this. No to another empty Mnangagwa victory. - Concerned