COMEDIAN Wencelacy Kudzayi Katuka, popularly known as Kadem the Comic, says comedy though not taken seriously in the country is a crucial tool not only in entertaining, but in educating, advocating for and challenging good and bad norms in today’s society. He told NewsDay Life & Style that comedy was therapeutic for both audiences and performers.   “Comedy by nature is entertaining and helps to heal people through stress relief both in good and bad times. For me comedy plays a very important role in my life as it helps me to reflect on my past and bottle up my emotions into jokes which I then say out on stage,” he noted. “It (comedy) can also be used to speak truth to power through satire, which involves questioning decisions and processes implemented by authorities in order to make them accountable and citizen-centred. “On the other hand, people laugh at these matters, thereby reducing the pressure and stress that comes with some topics that may be tough to discuss.”   The comedian said he drew inspiration from rising comedians, adding that owning a comedy school and promoting Zimbabwe through the arts were some of his greatest passions. “I look up to comedians who are starting mostly because they are fresh and also need the encouragement to keep going. Every comedian in Zimbabwe is different and that inspires me to keep going,” he said. “We have organisations such as Simuka Comedy, Umahlekisa Comedy and Magamba Network which have groomed, nurtured and supported comedians by giving them a platform to showcase their talents. I wish to also uplift my nation by doing the same.” Currently working on a number of comic projects, Kadem the Comic said his mission was to expand his skills through dedication and hard work so that he earns a living from it.   “I am finalising a sitcom I am writing which I intend to also produce. I am partnering my friend from Botswana in producing a comic book for teenagers. lt focuses on teenage issues and helps them find their way through this stage of life,” he said. “Through Simuka Comedy, l have produced a couple of sitcoms which should be coming to your screens any moment from now. In everything that we do, I figured this mantra, get good, get seen, get paid has helped me and others close to me. You put in the work, you attract the positive energy, then you feed off it.” The comedian, who is also the creative writer for comedy sets such as Special Class, PaTown, Mosquito naPatrick and  Giribheti loQeqetahile dreams of being one of the most popular and influential comedians in the world. “I have quite a series of dreams. My dream is that comedy in Zimbabwe be the biggest genre. My dream is also to have a sold-out comedy show at Madison Square Garden (a multi-purpose indoor arena in New York City) and have local comedians host those big international events like the Oscars,” he said, adding that his other dream was to have comedy schools in Zimbabwe and Africa at large.