A COMPANY claiming to be a Be Forward agent allegedly duped 17 prospective car owners of more than US$100 000 between January and February this year. National police spokesperson Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi said they were investigating several fraud cases involving purported importation of vehicles on behalf of unsuspecting Zimbabweans.   In a statement yesterday, Nyathi said a company known as Siyaya Trading Company (Pvt) Ltd had claimed to be a Be Forward agent and swindled the prospective car owners between January and February this year. “Investigations carried (out) by the police established that the individuals approached the company’s offices situated at Joina City, 2nd Floor, Harare, where they made payments for the importation of purported vehicles from Japan,” he said. “Delivery of the purported vehicles was said to be done within eight weeks after payment. Half of the monies paid were, however, channelled towards the purchase of the vehicles, while the remainder was converted to own use by the suspects, resulting in the complainants not receiving the imported vehicles.”   Nyathi said 17 victims lost approximately US$102 636, adding that the police were appealing for information which could lead to the arrest of one of the directors, Evans Dingilizwe Mbasopi. Meanwhile, a suspected fraudster duped an unsuspecting Harare man of $22 million in a botched Zimbabwe Revenue Authority (Zimra) duty payment scam. Justice Mahuni, who appeared before magistrate Dennis Mangosi, was remanded in custody to today for bail ruling. Allegations are that on April 17 this year, Mahuni connived with his accomplice, Zviitei Muboko, who is still at large, and defrauded Stanley Kamukapa.   It is alleged that Mahuni allegedly contacted Kamukapa through his friend, Wellington Charehwa, telling him that he needed to pay Zimra $22 004 539,27 using swipe. Mahuni allegedly told Kamukapa that he had US$13 500 to offer after the transaction. Kamukapa reportedly told Mahuni that he should give him the cash before the transaction, and the latter sent him to his accomplice, who was at a local hotel to collect the money. Kamukapa met Muboko, who told him that she had the money, but would hand it over once the transaction was complete. Acting on the misrepresentation, Kamukapa paid $22 004 539,27 into a Zimra account using transaction reference number 48659 supplied by Mahuni. Kamukapa did the transaction in the presence of Muboko. According to the State, Muboko, however, did not give Kamukapa his money, claiming that they wanted confirmation from Zimra. On April 19, Muboko allegedly contacted Kamukapa telling him that Zimra had confirmed the transaction, but indicated that she was waiting for a receipt. Kamukapa reportedly later tried calling Mahuni and Muboko who became evasive. He reported the matter to the police and investigations led to the arrest of Mahuni, but nothing was recovered.