Among the main news headlines last week were reports that part of the African Union delegation was stranded in Poland. A large part of the delegation that was stranded at Warsaw's Chopin Airport was security personnel and the media teams from South Africa with the airport authorities arguing that the delegation did not have the required permits for the security equipment they were taking to Kyiv. While the delegation was later cleared to proceed with their journey, the stand-off created debate on several fronts. For example, the South African delegation warned that the delays in releasing the delegation were jeopardising President Cyril Ramaphosa’s security, while others alleged racism and sabotage by Polish authorities against an African Union effort with some alleging the hidden hand of the North Atlantic Treat Organisation (Nato) and the European Union (EU).   African leaders are on an African Union mission to Ukraine to salvage the elusive peace and they were also scheduled to meet Russia’s President Vladimir Putin on 17 June. The delegation is made up of leaders and representatives from South Africa, Egypt, Senegal, Congo-Brazzaville, Comoros, Zambia and Uganda. It is one of those rare moments where Africans have taken the initiative to negotiate peace in a European conflict. In fact, it is something that no one expected given that the West has treated Africa as inferior. There is no doubt that these African Union peace efforts in Ukraine are unsettling Europe, the United States, and their political organisations. Egos are being bruised and challenged. It is more unsettling because most African countries have either chosen not to take sides in the Russia-Ukraine war or have advocated for political dialogue over military intervention. While others have stood by Russia ideologically as an all-weather ally dating backing to the wars of independence. These global political dynamics have placed the Western bloc in a quandary that has shaken its ability to establish a solid position on both the war in Ukraine and its global position on many issues. It is for these reasons that Poland’s handling of the South African delegation is seen by others as an autotomy — a process where grasshoppers shed one or both hindlimbs in self-defence or escape from predators. Are countries in the Western bloc throwing toys out of the pram?   What does this mean?  First, the West lost the plot by opting to support Ukraine militarily over dialogue hoping to dislodge Russia’s Putin. Diplomacy could have saved the situation, but the obsession was either to neutralise Russia or get rid of its president and not necessarily to support Ukraine. The frosty relationship between the EU and Ukraine is well documented, and the current billion-dollar military backing is just a charade. Ukraine has long been seen as a difficult political partner of the EU and this is due to such factors as the unwillingness of the EU to expand to the post-Soviet space, the poor performance of the Ukrainian economy, the lack of democracy, and the internal instability following the Orange Revolution. The result of that charade is a global disruption of economies and trading systems that have stagnated recovery after the COVID-19 pandemic. Millions of people have been pushed into poverty due to the war in Ukraine. In addition, the decision to provide military support to Ukraine has had major implications in terms of geopolitical dynamics but even so, the West is not willing to reconsider its position. This has dented its reputation and cast doubt on its ability to retain hegemony — not that it is necessary anyway. Second, having endured and learned that the capriciousness and arrogance of the West plus the realization that the sulky behaviour of the West is becoming a global liability, BRICS — a group of States established in June 2009 comprising Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa — have been proactive in shaping alternative global trading systems. This is peeling off the Western power and influence and also its position as a prototype for development in most of its aspects. BRICS’s rise is gradually influencing a major shift in global power politics, perhaps what is needed to save the world from Western double standards.    Third, the void of ideas on the part of the West over the Ukraine war or its inability to take on board alternative ideas on how to address the war has created an opportunity for the African Union to step in and help seek the elusive peace between Ukraine and Russia. They are doing so via dialogue — an approach that was ignored by the West. While the African intervention may be seen as just that, it is a huge egg on the face for the West which has been a global bully for over a century. The embarrassment will not end there. There is a good chance that the African Union delegation will secure some concessions from Russia given their long-standing relationship with the latter. Such concessions may put the West in the corner where the ball will be thrown into its court to stop the war or remain a global bully. The result is a gradual and continuous isolation of the West from the rest with Africa teaming up with the Asian and Latin American regions for a new world order.