RENEWABLE energy is the only energy component that is regarded as the panacea to fossil fuel-generated energy, worldwide. This is due to the fact that fossil fuels like coal, oil and gas, have been classified as dirty, carbon and emission-producing, thereby causing global warming and climate change. On the other hand, renewable energy is regarded as safe, clean, efficient and cheaper, among others, hence the energy of choice. As the world foregrounds the sustainability regarding renewable energy, its essential nature and transition have clouded out millions around the world who are currently employed in fossil fuel industries. In this regard, not much is written or talked about their fate, as the world makes a transition to renewable energy. The employees in fossil fuel industries also need to transition to more emission-free communities. We have not been told whether these employees will have stakes or shares in the envisaged renewable energy sector or not.   The world has not been told if these workers will be equipped with new skills to make them relevant in the event that the transition to renewable energy is successful. It is also not clear how these workers will be rehabilitated with regards to health problems emanating from inhaled emissions and toxins over years of contact with fossil fuels. It is also not clear if all of them have insurance to cater for their health and wellbeing during their working lives or after they have left these money-spinning industries. Those working in coal industries have been diagnosed of tuberculosis, but experts have concentrated on the environmental wellbeing while ignoring the plight of the foot soldiers who toil day and night to make the dreams of polluting actors achievable. While it is the main objective of environmental sustainability to conserve and preserve its wellness, what about the wellbeing of those who are doing the dangerous work? As we speak, some have already retired, given packages or handshakes, to go home and suffer for the rest of their lives. While some coal mines have since closed, their former employees remain abandoned and forgotten.   Currently, the world is seriously concerned with decarbonisation issues, for a clean and sustainable future and there is no time and place for current and former employees and their families. While decarbonisation is a process that delivers clean energy to the world and can be seen as the energy messiah, nothing has been said about the livelihood of the employees in the fossils sector. Even the Bible talks about life after death but the main polluting actors cannot visualise the lives of their former employees after leaving the fossil fuel sector. The concerned employees have contributed to the vision of the fossil fuel-based companies, but their plight is not clear as some are now struggling with respiratory diseases, cancer, tuberculosis, cardiovascular diseases, among others. These are also passed on to the families of the former fossil fuel-based workers, with such diseases and complications like asthma, stroke and heart attacks quite common.  Above all, there is lack of communication, education and awareness on the operations of this sector not only with regards to the environment but also from the people’s point of view. Coal has been mined since time immemorial, with emissions polluting the environment in the process. On the other hand, coal has been extensively used for household chores such as cooking and heating. Besides the companies concerned concentrating on reporting profits and dividends, sustainability reporting based on how much carbon footprints are realised or how much is absorbed in carbon sinks is not readily available. Environmental and social governance issues are key but they are ignored or improperly communicated to communities, employees and stakeholders sometimes leading to greenwashing worldwide. In this regard, fossil fuel-based companies, industries and organisations are forgetting the employee, one of the most important stakeholders for their survival. Current and former employees are not situated at the centre of the fossil fuel-based companies, hence their health and wellbeing concerns remain unresolved and poorly communicated. Many companies ignore the communication, education and awareness part because they do not want their employees to have deep knowledge and information regarding the way they do their business. These are worrying energy transitional gaps which need to be managed.   All in all, the aim of this discussion is that, while it is significant and instrumental to strengthen environmental sustainability building, the worker should not end up being the loser both in terms of health and livelihood.