ENGINEERING firm Baldmin Projects has clinched a US$1,2 million manufacturing deal in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) as the company spreads its footprint across the region. Baldmin Projects is a subsidiary of Baldmin Holdings which has its head office in South Africa and offices in Harare and the DRC.   It was awarded two tenders to manufacture warehouses for Lulu KCC Mine, a division of Glencore group of mines worth over US$1,2 million, according to Baldmin Holdings founder and managing director, Costar Takawira Mangwende. The supply of consumables for six months under the first phase of the project will be renewed for another 12 months. “We are delighted that the organisation is growing from strength to strength after facing challenges related to the COVID-19 pandemic which disrupted businesses all over the world," Mangwende said in a statement.   “Our vision is to become the most preferred supplier of mining and engineering equipment, spares etc. in the region. We want to grow our business locally and in the Sadc region as we seek to bring back the much needed foreign currency in the country, hence creating more employment opportunities. “Some of our success stories date back to the Metallon plants, Unki plant Upgrades (Anglo), resuscitation of Sabi Gold mine which operates as Chandiwana mines where Takawira is a shareholder and one of the directors of the mine, just to mention a few. “We are getting a lot of enquiries from the DRC but our biggest challenge is funding and most banks are hesitant to offer project funding even in South Africa but we are managing and working with our clients on how best to deliver the projects.” Baldmin is also a procurement house for the mining industry, giving clients options that are tailor made to suit their budgets.   At its Benoni workshop, Baldmin refurbishes gear boxes, crushers, mills and mining equipment for mines which cannot afford new equipment. The company’s refurbished equipment comes as good as new with a 6-12 months warranty. Said Mangwende: “Baldmin saves small-scale miners all the way to commercial miners and no one is too small or too big for us. Our engineers are also on standby to assist our clients after sales and always ready to help when required." The Balmin MD believes Africa needs to take the initiative to develop itself. “I am a firm believer in Zimbabwe and we as the citizens can make it better by bringing back all the experience and knowledge we have gained abroad,” he added. Baldmin runs offices and workshops in South Africa, Zimbabwe and DRC’s Lubumbashi. The company is also doing gold processing plants (leach plants) worth over US$850 000 for Urumaya, a Bulawayo-based company which is part of LOC group of companies. In 2021, the company acquired a 30% shareholding in Chandiwana Mines which partly owns Zvishavane-based gold producer Sabi Gold Mine. Baldmin was recently awarded another multi-million-dollar contract in Tanzania to design, manufacture, install and commission a gold processing plant which processes 250 000 tonnes per month. The project, worth over US$18,5 million, boosted employment in Zimbabwe, South Africa and locals in east Africa. Baldmin also constructed a matte crushing plant at Unki Mine in Shurugwi. It also successfully completed refurbishment works at Sabi Gold Mine which was on care and maintenance. Besides Sabi, Baldmin has been involved in maintenance programmes at Redwing Mine, Shamva and How Mine in Bulawayo.