AFRO dancehall artiste who prides himself as Africa’s finest, Nutty O, appears to have very little to be proud of after missing an opportunity to perform at the Fill Up Heroes Stadium concert recently held by Zambian musician Yo Maps in Zambia. The performance at Heroes Stadium could have been a litmus test for the singer to assess the popularity of his brand on a non-Zimbabwean crowd.   It was unfortunate that Nutty O arrived late for the concert and he missed his time slot in the process, which left him a pale shadow of the finest. His publicist, Argus Mepo, has calmed anxiety among his fans who were wondering what exactly happened in Zambia after revealing to NewsDay Life & Style that the musician’s tight schedule made him miss the performance at Heroes Stadium. “It was due to logistical challenges. Team arrived in Zambia late because they had a show the previous day in Bulawayo, so connecting from the City of Kings to Zambia took time,” Mepo said.   Nutty O said in future events as big as Fill Up Heroes, he would try not to repeat the same mistake. “No one has control of life’s eventualities, but yes, I will make sure I diligently try to safeguard such from happening going forward,” he said. Nutty O, who is currently in Zambia, was, however, pleased with how he was received in the northern country and he was surprised to note that his name was known in Zambia. “Zambia been a blessing, I love it. Surprisingly they know a lot of Nutty O here, it is so humbling, they are in touch and they respect,” he said.   The singer believes he is on the right track as his popularity continues to grow. “So far I know I have been ticking the right boxes. I have been putting in the hard work.” The singer is enjoying the Zambian experience where he has had an interview with a television station. Meanwhile, Nutty O is currently riding high with his single Makanonoka which is among the top songs on local radio stations. He has also featured on Makuruwani, a new release by hip-hop sensation Voltz JT.