ONE can safely say that the Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP), through its public relations department headed by Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi, is doing its best to engage with the public in the fight against crime, which has become a national scourge. Veteran radio producer and broadcaster of Classic 263, Terrence Mapurisana, aka Radio Commissioner-General and the ZRP are doing a sterling job of keeping the public posted on crime developments nationwide.   I now know that the police have a million-and-one departments dealing with a million-and-one types of crimes. Some of us have always thought that ZRP begins and ends with its officers we see on the streets, sports stadia and in the charge office. And yet the bigger picture is out of our sight. The police is super-busy and active.   Crime is now prevalent in the country big time and is becoming extremely sophisticated as it is being committed round the clock. It provides quick “income”, but comes with short-lived freedom on the side of the perpetrators. ZRP’s weekly radio magazine programme, Police Check, fits well into a modern police service. However, some members of the public who fall victim to robbery or theft do not report the cases to the police.   It is when the victim has lost everything to the thieves or robbers that they grow wings to fly to the police to report. Let us be honest, by saying “everything”, some victims will have been robbed of trifles such as “ndorindori” (a cheap cellphone) and grocery items. What the public must know is that as much as the police sympathise with the victim’s loss, no matter the extent of the value, they are primarily and keenly interested in the crime itself. They need the statistics for their records and for planning and it assists them in curbing or generally dealing with crime. The police work with us, the people and for the people. -Patriotic Citizen Lupane residents must learn the art of development RESIDENTS of Lupane, I mean Lupane urban in particular, must learn the art of development. There is no other way to freedom of mind and contentment. Complaining about the presence of people from other parts of the country will not yield positive results. These people come to Lupane to start businesses and create employment opportunities for our children. They come here to invest in property and other commercial undertakings. They are educated and there is precious little that we Ndebeles can do about it unless we join them, instead of creating groups which spread toxic gossip which poison our youths. Gossiping while trolling in the beer garden is never progressive. Beer gardens are not a good environment and consuming alcohol in the open, such as on the streets, is poisoning the mindset of the youths. We owe it to our young generations to teach them and imprint in their minds investment rather than spending. This is what the Jews, the Indians and Chinese do. They teach their children how to invest, while discouraging spending. It’s crazy to complain about business operators from other parts of the country when we actually allow loafers and tramps (the “sbondas” who bring into the town a culture of public consumption of alcohol and other anti-social behaviours such as defiling the environment and uttering foul language. A person who patronises beer gardens or bottlestores full-time cannot develop a community. Why complain about things which we cannot change? (God please help me accept the things I cannot change and change the things I can!) The things we can change and those we cannot change are in the Constitution. “Everyone is free to reside in any part of Zimbabwe and move freely in Zimbabwe”, and no one can change this law (section 66 of the Constitution). No one can also change section 265(2): “All members of local authorities must be elected by registered voters within the areas for which the local authorities are established”. And yet for seven years now the Lupane Local Board has had civil servants imposed on the community by the Minister of Local Government to make policies for the local authority and its residents have never complained but are complaining about people who bring investment to Lupane. Some are preoccupied with toxic gossip. Comrades, this is wrong. We owe it to our children to pass on to them education on investment as opposed to spending without the money to spend in the first place. - Martin Stobart