ELECTION day is coming, and HR needs to be prepared for issues like time off for voting and political activity in the office. Politics and political discussions is everywhere these days and talking politics at work is inevitable, especially during this election period. This article will explore various ways of handling political conversations at work and HR’s role in maintaining a calm political environment at the workplace during this election season.   How election period looks like General elections are scheduled to be held in Zimbabwe on August 23, 2023 to elect the President and members of both houses of Parliament and this HR can’t ignore since some voters are also part of the employees. During election time a lot of activities happen which include things like campaigning and making work or personal comments on government activities linked to your employment. This election season, more than any other, HR professionals must focus on how to support employees.  Allowing employees time off to vote   The election date has been set on a working day and as HR professionals we have to prepare how we will treat that day at the same time not denying anyone for whatsoever reason their right to vote. After granting them off to partake in the voting process there should be no employer that has the right to influence the decision of the employees on who to vote for. The employees should be free to vote without any intimidation or any outside influence from their employer. I also personally feel it's unethical for employers after granting employees leave to demand proof that they have voted. HR should actually plan, prepare for this election season because at the same workplace people have diverse political views. Handling political discussions at work   We are just close to elections in Zimbabwe and normally during these times politics and political discussions are everywhere and inevitable even at our workplaces. Conversations related to politics can be disruptive to a harmonious, positive work environment. HR must take steps to prevent such discussions. When left unmanaged, politics often becomes disruptive. Talking politics in the workplace distracts employees from the commonly shared goals and hampers the common purpose of the organisation. It is the responsibility of efficient HR to avoid political discussion among employees in the workplace through enacting policies related to that, conducting inhouse training explaining the expectations of the company. Should employees discuss politics at work? Politics is a topic where emotions run wild, the stakes are high, and opinions vary, hence having such discussion at work can cause unnecessary tension because of deffering views. Limit employee political activities that have an impact on the workplace. Conversations related to politics can be disruptive to a harmonious, positive work environment. HR must put in place measures to deal with that because when left unmanaged, politics often becomes fodder for discussion among employees. The employer can do this by implementing rules prohibiting various activities, such as political campaigning during business hours. Also, enforce dress code and attendance policies, consistent with past practice (eg, don’t allow workers to wear campaign T-shirts). Doing so could spark political arguments or complaints that the employer is pandering to one candidate or another's whims. Formal policy is a panacea to everything While larger companies are more likely to have official policies than small businesses, half of the employees who have been subjected to uncomfortable political discussions at work believe their employer should have policies that address political issues. This policy should be documented in employee handbooks. This way, the rules are transparent and accessible to everyone. Examples of what you can ban in your policy may include conversations between employees at work about the political party one supports as well as soliciting or campaigning at work. HR should also make sure that in that policy issues such as sending emails of a political nature, on company computers and using company email address, to other employees, customers or industry partners, or wearing political or campaign attire is prohibited. This sounds naïve but it will protect the company. Prohibit the use of company property for political purposes While you can’t necessarily eliminate political discussions at the workplace, you can help limit the use of tools that can negatively impact your business. Employers who wish to control the use of their company’s computer systems, including email, must have and regularly enforce an electronic communication policy that warns employees that the computer systems are company property and that regulates the type of discussion that can take place on a computer system. An employer can limit the political discourse that takes place on its computer systems through an electronics communication policy. Shun all Political activities from work As election day approaches, campaigns are in full swing, and there may be political activity going on in the workplace. If you don’t already have one, it may be a good idea to come up with a political activity policy in your employee handbook to set clear expectations. Employers should prohibit certain activities, campaigning and suggestive speeches while you are on the clock. But they can’t usually control what you do during non-working hours. However, that doesn’t mean you can’t get fired for your extracurricular activities it depends and varies from company to company. If your employee decides to be involved in election activities, you need to work with them to ensure they remain apolitical especially at work, avoid any actual, potential or perceived conflict of interest with their public sector employment. Encourage employees to keep any political talk as non-partisan as possible and avoid hot-button issues. You may also want to provide tips to employees on how to divert if another coworker tries to engage in an unwanted discussion. Lastly, we encourage those who have registered to vote to vote on the day. If you ever think that just one vote in a sea of millions cannot make much of a difference, think twice, because voting is your constitutional right and don’t deprive yourself from it as an employee .