LAST week we talked about how you can conquer the fear of public speaking. This week, I zero in on CEOs or leaders. These people speak for the organisation and speak to the organisation, hence the need to improve their public speaking skills all the time. Strategic communication   First the leader is a strategic communicator. So, public speaking allows CEOs to effectively communicate their vision, goals, values, and strategies to various stakeholders, including employees, investors, customers, and the public. As a CEO you must be able to articulate ideas clearly, confidently, concisely, and persuasively. When you are able to communicate you can inspire confidence in others. Crisis communication   In one way or the other, the CEO must defend the organisation when there is a crisis. I have consulted for leaders and orgnisations that want me to help them douse the fire because there is a problem. Generally, in times of crisis or challenging situations, leaders, managers, or CEOs are often required to address the workers, shareholders, partners and the media. As a result, if you can’t express yourself, you might trip yourself in the process and escalate the problem. Public speaking enables the CEOs to convey calmness, provide reassurance, and communicate a clear plan of action. Attracting investors   The role of a leader is to sell the dream and get investors or stakeholders. Public speaking skills are vital for CEOs when presenting to investors, stakeholders, and board members. By delivering compelling pitches, CEOs can attract investment, secure partnerships, and gain support for strategic initiatives. A well-articulated speech can demonstrate competence and instill confidence in potential investors. Political and policy communication As a nation we are at a crucial time when we need the next CEO for Zimbabwe. That takes effective communication. It goes beyond political, but clear articulation of their policies. The talk around struct has been emphasized, but we need systems thinking, systems design, and systems communication. Brand equity The CEO builds and improves the brand of the organisation. That takes building trust and credibility. CEOs serve as the face of their organisations. The leader has to deliver clear and compelling speeches to both the internal and external audiences. That level of delivery earns respect and enhances the company’s reputation. Opinion influencers The role of a leader is to influence public or stakeholder opinion. So, in the advent of social media the CEOs plays a crucial role. What they say online matters. This, therefore, calls for leaders that are not reckless with their tweets. Leaders who are skilled public speakers can influence public opinion, shape public discourse, and advocate for industry-related issues. Motivational communication Leaders often address their employees during AGMs, conferences, or other internal events. By mastering public speaking, they can motivate and inspire their teams, boosting morale and fostering a positive work culture. A compelling speech can align employees with the company's mission, values, and objectives. Media relations  The contemporary function of a leader is to be the face of the company. Leaders interact with the media through Press conferences, interviews, or public events. The media play a crucial role in publishing the brand of an organisation. Strong public speaking skills allow leaders to deliver their key messages succinctly, handle tough questions, and maintain control of the narrative. They can effectively represent the organisation's interests and ensure accurate communication. Improve public speaking skills Having shown how important public speaking is for a leader, now I am going to give essential tips that every leader must embrace. Rehearse: A prepared leader is a better leader. Take time to practise public speaking, both in prepared and impromptu situations. Consider having a coach on public speaking or join public speaking groups to refine your skills.  Read widely: Readers are leaders. Expand your mind through reading and being better informed. Remember to always fill your gas tank. Audience analytics: It’s important to understand your audience’s needs, expectations, and concerns as a speaker. The leader crafts a message that resonates with their interests and values. Be relatable and relevant: At times as CEOs we might be tempted to speak using the language we derived from our MBAs.  CEOs should master storytelling techniques and this includes personal stories and testimonies. Stories can help convey complex ideas, create emotional connections, and inspire action. Vocal image: As a CEO, develop non-verbal communication and master emotional intelligence. Non-verbal communication includes techniques such as body language, gestures, facial expressions, eye contact, and projecting confidence through your posture and demeanor. The feedback loop: Remember you are not talking to yourself, but people who think. Seek feedback from your coach, friends and your audience. Know your strengths and weaknesses. Tech-savvy: Technology is inevitable and as such a leader must keep learning and up to date with tools at their disposal. Also leaders should use social media to reach more people and increase their communication impact.  The Kaizen Principle: The best way to become a better speaker is hinged on continuous improvement, and this is called the Kaizen Principle. Public speaking can be improved through practice, dedication, commitment and all the aforementioned tips.