Yadah will next month host scouts from Italian giants Juventus in a development that could open a path for budding footballers into Europe and other international markets. Yadah owner Walter Magaya yesterday announced that his Yadah Sports Academy has partnered with Agrippa Guti's City Academy to bring in the scouts from the Old Lady.   The five-day event, which will be hosted at Yadah Stadium in Harare and caters for boys and girls between the age group of three and 17, starts on August 26. “The brilliance of Agrippa Guti of City Academy has managed to pull a partnership with Yadah Sports Academy for this endeavour,” Magaya said. “We are looking forward to hosting the greatest football trials ever in Zimbabwe. We believe hosting Juventus scouts will be the mark to try and create a sports economy for the nation. This is a powerful force that we are creating in the country by hosting these trials and we hope that the efforts of Guti will not go to waste because he is the one who has pulled the strings up to this stage. As Yadah we will host the visitors at our Yadah Hotel and we will make available five pitches so that we can host the event without any problems as we bid to reach the highest level of influence in football.”   Juventus Academy head of goalkeeping Fahim Hamza confirmed they will be making the trip to Harare next month. “It's a huge privilege to be visiting Zimbabwe this summer in August and we want to say a big thank you to Prophet Magaya and the City Academy for making all this happen. We look forward to seeing all the young boys and girls that Zimbabwe has to offer. We hope it's going to be a successful trip for us and hopefully we can scout from talented boys and girls in the country. See you soon,” said Hamza in a video posted online. According to the organisers, the first stage of the trials is talent search and will happen from August 4-5 in different towns and cities across the country. Those that impress will then be given a chance to impress the visiting scouts. Yadah Sports Academy said its aim is to give an African child the platform to be selected by the best in the world.   “Our vision is to see our cadets compete globally, showcase their talent at the highest stage and earn enough to transform generations.” Apart from the sports academy, Magaya also owns a football club that competes in the Premier Soccer League.