LOCAL writer and storyteller Kudakwashe Rice says his works reflect life and its complexities, all in the hope of conscientising and inspiring the youths to overcome societal ills that prevent them from being progressive citizens. Rice told NewsDay Life & Style that his work digs into themes that include, but are not limited to, sadness, love and grief.   “As a storyteller, my work is mainly portrayed through poetry and spoken word which I fuse with different art forms such as music, fashion and visual art. My work portrays my experiences with depression, love, loss and spirituality, as well as other people’s experiences with these things,” he explained. “I write a lot about young people within my age demographic and their need to break away from societal ills which make them incapable of progressing in life. This may be through depression, prioritising spirits, or having no sense of purpose. In life I also encourage them to overcome any limitations.” He further elaborated: “My target market is mainly young adults that have an interest in everything to do with creativity and stories. The overall theme, tone and messaging of my craft are not only limited to those within my age demographic, but to every other Zimbabwean and African that can relate to the experiences that I share and write about.”   Rice believes the originality and uniqueness of his writing sets him apart from other writers. “My ability to maintain authenticity within my work by expressing matters and ideas that coincide with who I am makes me different from other writers,” he said, noting that he writes to convey messages and ideas that have originality, truth and purpose. “With God as my guide, I allow myself to be a vessel that allows His creativity to shine through me. I have been granted grace to be able to have a gift that only He can be credited for. “The other aspect has been my ability to extend my written work to other creative spheres and make people appreciate a poem that became a song, a picture, or a film.”   He said his next project, an exhibition combining poetry, photography and painting would address many societal issues that are common in Zimbabwean communities. “Without giving too much away, my exhibitions coming soon will depict different stories, from historical ones to modern ones that speak about life, virtue and certain key aspects of the Zimbabwean community. These exhibitions are going to improve my knowledge as I research on different ideas and stories outside what I normally write about,” he said. “The exhibitions will also contribute to my growth as an artist and further establishing myself as a storyteller who is not limited to onstage poetry performances.” Rice, who had his project called Beneath the Veil in the top five of the New Media Writing Prize United Kingdom 2023, said he intended to extend his creativity beyond national borders and positively touch people’s lives while also pursuing other artistic endeavours such as film and music.