TWO Chitungwiza Arts Centre visual artists Alfred Mutuke and Bendick Mazuvamana have something in common: They agree that birds exude happiness and calmness. Both of them are acclaimed stone sculptors who were nurtured and groomed since their teenage days.   Both men have never been to the sea or jungle to fully appreciate bird species but reading magazines, journals and watching wildlife videos has acquainted them with the flying animals’ habitats. Alfred Mutuke told NewsDay Life & Style that the best way to prevent cruelty to the animal kingdom is to understand how the animals live and how they express themselves. Birds sing and fly in more than a few amazing ways. Matuke said:  “Sea birds are symbolic expressions of several aspects of human life, be it joy, sorrow, anxiety or anticipation. Birds hunt for food for their little ones and take time to teach them to fly and guide them to nests. The same happens with care and protection from predator animals such as snakes and eagles.”   Mutuke, an admirer and follower of the stunning works of Taurayi Maisiri, said he was ready to reveal his recently completed piece of work which is set to be launched at the United Nations Cultural Diversity, Unity and Peace competition. An enthusiast for chipping creations and abstracts on green opal and spring stones, Mutuke attributed his tremendous success in sculpting to the late renowned visual artist Lifford Gonde. Gonde introduced Mutuke to stone carving by familiarising him to a wide variety of stones found in Zimbabwe. “He mentored me for nearly two years and took me through processes such as selecting the stones, checking on strength, sketching, cutting, breaking, chipping, scraping while maintaining beauty and fine finishes in mind,” Mutuke explained. He, however, lamented the dearth in buyers during the Mother’s and Father’s days because the majority of visual artists in Chitungwiza were expecting brisk business selling their creative pieces to loving mothers and fathers.   Mazuvamana, a highly skilled installation services expert, found stone engraving more lucrative and satisfying and has developed special love for birds, which inspired him to create the Lovers Abstract, a depiction of two birds admiring and teasing each other. “Protection from the Predators and Morning Drill figurines are renditions that reveal several issues in the bird life,” he said. “Birds, like humans, protect their young ones from enemy attacks and teach all necessary movements to their young ones. The struggle to fight drug and substance abuse is being hindered by a serious lack of parent-to-child communication and lack of entrepreneurial skills. “The youth can have their financial stresses released through stone carving. We are more than ready to provide counselling and guidance into financial freedom through stone art.” Mazuvamana has also carved several pieces to rally communities in the fight against drugs.