AT the conclusion of marketing year (MY) 2022/23, maize supplies in southern Africa were close to the five-year average, but 10% lower than MY 2021/22. However, aggregate maize supplies were sufficient to meet regional demand and supply export markets outside the region.   The 2023 main season cereal harvest will improve market deliveries as the lean season comes to an end. The ongoing maize harvest is likely to be below average in areas of southern Mozambique, southern and western Zambia, southern Zimbabwe, parts of the Grand South and eastern Madagascar, Botswana, northern Namibia and southern Angola. These areas had poor rainfall performance due to extended dry periods, above average temperatures and early cessation of the rainfall season.   The eastern parts of the region experienced above-average rainfall favourable for crop production. By the end of March 2023, South Africa had exported 3,15 million metric tonnes of maize nearly matching the total export levels at the same time in 2021/22 MY. Notably, the volumes of white maize exports doubled relative to the previous season because of import demand from Mexico, Honduras and Guatemala. Meanwhile, exports of yellow maize to Europe and Asia shrunk by a third compared to the previous season because of strong competition from other exporters.   South Africa is expected to maintain its status as a net exporter of corn in MY 2023/24. For Zambia, while borders officially remained open to trade, attempts were made to restrict maize cross-border trade through more limited issuance of export permits and movement restrictions in April because remaining marketable and reserve stocks had declined. Maize prices in local currencies followed the seasonal pattern for much of the 2022/23 marketing year and were above the five-year average in most markets. Although prices were stable immediately after harvest, they gained an upward momentum from July 2022 to August 2022 in Dar es Salaam, Randfontein and Antananarivo markets. The seasonal rise started late in October 2022 for Lusaka and Lilongwe because of reduced market demand. Maize prices peaked from November to December 2022 on most markets, but peaked on January 2023 on Lusaka and Antananarivo markets. By April 2023, prices continued decreasing seasonally across markets as the main harvest sets in. Nevertheless, these prices remain above last year and the five-year average, underpinned by tight domestic supplies, currency depreciation, and high prices of energy that have inflated production and distribution costs. Although food price pressures are expected to moderate with ongoing harvests, elevated food inflation levels will weigh on household’s purchasing power in many geographies. - Famine Early Warning Systems Network I HAD mixed feelings when I heard that Floyd Mayweather Jnr is coming to Zimbabwe and South Africa as part of his motherland tour. The timing of his visit is a good opportunity for him to understand the repression in Zimbabwe as the country approaches harmonised elections set for August 23, just about a month away. In the past week, the main opposition Citizens Coalition for Change was denied the right to hold rallies across the country by the police. Some members of the opposition have been brutally assaulted by gangs organised by the ruling Zanu PF party. One of the attacks on members of the opposition was organised by a senior Zanu PF official. I strongly advise Mayweather to take the trip as an opportunity to see the reality on the ground. He should meet up with Zimbabweans from various walks of life, visit the victims of political violence and hear their stories. He should find out for himself. - Kennedy Kaitano