E-CREATOR, believed to be an internet-based e-commerce company and once a creator of joy, has created tears in many. Its owners are unknown, some claiming to be Chinese and others to be Zimbabwean.   However, it has turned out to become a Ponzi scheme, a non-look-twice application for many Zimbabweans. Strolling into the social media streets, many are claiming to have grabbed fruit from the withered tree, but the pain the Zimbabwean E-creator users have suffered is not worth the gains some have made. Manipulation tactics   Many have a lot of questions about how we easily get manipulated and fall into the trap of scammers. It is not robotic science; these are circles created in the mind. Some scammers are easy to identify and some are complex for the human eye. They are so good at “socially engineering” victims, slowly luring their prey in the direction they want. As the saying goes: “Good things come to those who wait,” well this works at both ends. The scammer waits as you relax investing more for far too long, you are patient enough to withdraw the money at its highly cumulative figure and he is also patient enough to wait for you to get into your comfort zone.   Taking advantage of the weaknesses in the human psyche, fraudsters make use of different psychological techniques to trick our brains into their trap. Knowing some of these tactics will help in managing future scammers. In the mix, optimistic bias accompanies the illusion of invulnerability. Our social intuitions are powerful, but sometimes perilous. By virtue of being humans, through this bias, we are less likely to think we can experience negative things in the future. We often expect these negative things to happen to our colleagues or peers, not ourselves. This is one other nuclear weapon used by scammers. We wouldn’t expect it to be a scam when they come, with some providing valid certificates proving their legitimacy. The illusion of truth bias  When false things are repeatedly said, they turn up to be true. In this case, E-creator had its agents spread the gospel of free money online. However, these local evangelists were fooled as well and later found themselves holding a gun after an unknown bullet hits a bystander. One victim from the streets said: “If it wasn’t for my neighbour I wouldn’t have fallen prey; when I see him I will confront him to give me back my money from those Chinese.” Scammers are good at exploiting humanity’s default of relying on what we hear, for we believe that trust pays off. Greed and instant status Scammers and regular tricksters, understand how greedy we are and they know we are in need of instant gratification overlooking the long-term effects of our actions and decisions. Greed and envy are siblings; these two share the same blood type. Most people get into super speed to get rich quickly. Greed by nature, knows no bounds. Although our instincts tell us to be wary and be sceptical of easy productions with attractive returns, we often throw caution to the wind. The state of greed makes you reinvest your profit, even if it means you borrow more money for more profits we get to that degree of expecting extra payments. Top scams to hit Zimbabwe lately include such pyramid schemes as Elemant, Berven and others. These were not the only scams Zimbabweans experienced, just last year, we had the Devine Gifting Club which required you to pay US$20 (reference to the US$15 for E-Creator) for starters. This amount saw many people joining and of course left poorer. A jaw-dropping and shocking headline on November 9, 2021 read: Zimbabweans lose US$30 million in pyramid money schemes, some committing suicide after selling valuable property. From a brief discussion with some victims of the burning scammer, most of them are experiencing cycles of self-blame and self-harm, stress and trauma, with some floating towards depression. Well, these are a part of psychological ailments but how best can one cope thereafter? Coping after being scammed Do not blame yourself. Many feel angry and embarrassed that they have been tricked. Well, being tricked is a psychological normalcy, one way or the other in the trajectories of life you fall prey though the severity and intensity differ with people. Disconnect yourself from the scammer  After periods of prolonged strain, the human body needs space to rebuild and repair. This is very essential for growth and individual productivity.  Instead of hinging yourself on the perpetrator and his tools, it is recommended you disconnect as a recovery strategy. This gives you room and space for solution-focusing rather than  being problem-oriented. Share your narrative  Recovery starts by sharing your experience. Many victims remain silent for years experiencing hurt within. Sharing your truth also helps others avoid victimisation. Freely express your emotions. Most victims feel ashamed, foolish and stupid for being scammed, well that is a psychological normalcy. The reticence of such emotions can easily exacerbate a sense of hopelessness which often leads to isolation. Accept your emotions, acknowledge their presence, and express them freely to anyone within your sphere. Do not isolate yourself. Surround yourself with a positive social support system. Family and friends will always be there for you in whatever you are going through offering the best positive influence. Their unprompted check-ins encourage you to adopt healthier behaviours than when you are in your own vacuum. Self-care After experiencing the difficult challenges, one is encouraged to do things which help them live well and improve both physical health as well as mental health. Self-care helps one to manage different psychological ailments, such as stress and others. Some of the tips for self-care include enough sleep, doing exercises, practising gratitude and staying connected to others. Seek mental health services You can think of all the different strategies which can help you overcome the trauma associated with scamming but, however, it is always encouraged to pay a visit to a close mental health practitioner and receive the possible psychological services for your recovery. Bothwell Matewe is a lecturer at Great Zimbabwe University as well as a counselling psychology practitioner under the Allied Health Practitioners Council of Zimbabwe. He writes here in his personal capacity.