AFTER parting ways with Bulawayo Chiefs, Lizwe Sweswe has confirmed Premiership debutants, Sheasham have made an inquiry on his availability. Sweswe quit his job at Bulawayo Chiefs on Tuesday, having been at the helm of the club since the start of the season.   “The executive at Bulawayo Chiefs would like to announce that coach Lizwe Sweswe has tendered his resignation from the club, effective immediately. “This was received with sadness, as Sweswe has played a great role so far. That being said, the team will respect his decision. “Meanwhile, assistant coach Joseph Sibindi will guide this ship while we figure out a way forward in relation to the post of head coach," the club said.   And it has emerged that Sheasham were keeping tabs on the former FC Platinum gaffer. “They did send someone to me recently to find out but we didn't discuss much,” Sweswe told Newsday Sport. Sheasham have not done so well in their maiden season in the topflight league, where they have remained in the relegation zone since the start of the campaign. Sheasham  have managed one win, with 11 points on their tally after the first 13 games and they are 17th on the log standings.   The poor run of form has led to growing questions on the suitability of the John Nyikadzino-led technical team to take the team forward. Earlier on, there were indications that the club management gave the technical team an ultimatum to collect at least four points in their most recent matches against Herentals and Manica Diamonds. They only managed to pick one point in their goalless draw against Herentals last month, before losing 1-0 to Manica Diamonds. Intrestingly, club chairman Reginald Chidawanyika said they are not in a crisis and backed their coaching department despite the poor string of results. “No, this is a lie. Nothing like that happened. The challenge we have encountered as a committee is an attempt to run the team by armchair critics,” Chidawanyika said. “They have been sending CVs of Tavaka Gumbo, (Luke) Masomere and others but there's no real crisis at our team. "We only appointed an assistant coach last month and the window has opened, so it gives us an opportunity to rectify our team deficiences. “The ultimatum is given by chairman as head of committee and if I didn't give then I would not know who would and why one of our own would do that,” Chidawanyika said.