HIGHLANDERS . . . . . . . . . (0)1 TRIANGLE UNITED . . . . . . . . 0   HIGHLANDERS returned to the top of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League log, maintaining their unbeaten run in the process, by defeating a determined Triangle United at Barbourfields Stadium yesterday. After 14 rounds of action, Bosso are yet to taste defeat. Andrew Mbeba scored the all-important goal in the second half to spark wild celebrations inside the stadium. Mbeba curled in a beautiful free kick into the top corner which was all they needed to secure maximum points.   The match started on a low note with Triangle sitting back, allowing Highlanders to come at them and hoping to hit them or the break. The first action was in the fourth minute when Elshamar Farasi dribbled past a cluster of defenders, but his effort was blocked. Bosso continued to probe, winning a free kick at the edge of the box, but Melikhaya Ncube’s pile drive was cleared off the goal line by James Mukombwe in the 16th minute. Lynoth Chikuhwa could have scored his second goal of the season, but his header from a Mbeba cross was tipped over the crossbar by goalkeeper Matripples Muleya in goals for Triangle.   Midfielder Brighton Manhire then attempted to score from a distance in the 27th minute, but his effort took a deflection and almost caught Muleya off guard as it trickled out for a corner kick. The resultant corner kick fell kindly on Mbongeni Ndlovu, who headed wide with a clear sight of goal. Triangle’s first attempt at goal was in the 32nd minute when Tinashe Kabanda tried from a distance, but Ariel Sibanda safely gathered the effort. It was Triangle’s first shot on target and the only one in the first half. In the 40th minute Lynoth Chikuhwa blazed over the bar after a Muduhwa pull back from a corner kick. At the stroke of halftime, Melikhaya’s header lacked power from a Ray Lunga cross as Bosso strongly finished the half. Lucky Ndlela almost gave Triangle the lead in the 50th minute following a mistake by Peter Muduhwa, but Ariel Sibanda was equal to the task to thwart the effort. The Bosso fans were on their feet in the 61st minute after Andrew Mbeba scored from a free kick. McKinnon Mushore won a free kick and up stepped Mbeba to curl it to the far corner, beating the impressive Muleya all systems out. Bosso had an opportunity to double their lead In the 76 minute when Farasi was sent through by Mushore, but his curling effort missed the target. With action swinging from one end to the other, Triangle almost equalised in the 77th minute when Russel Madamombe drew a fine save from Sibanda before Manhire hooked it away to safety. Highlanders A Sibanda, L Chikuhwa (A Tandi 82), R Lunga (S Ngala 57) M Mushore, B Manhire, G Makaruse (A Faira 45), A Mbeba (Mason Mushore 82'), E Farasi (W Navaya 82), P Muduhwa, M Ndlovu, M Ncube. Triangle United M Muleya, J Mukombwe, C Musimwa, E Mafirenyika, A Makopa, J Nyabinde (R Madamombe 70), T Kabanda (W Makuva 78), N Zingo (E Karembo 45), L Ndlela, W Mensa (Hlabathi 89'), N Rauzhi