ZIMBABWE goes to the polls on August 23 and the only strong political candidates tussling it out are Zanu PF leader Emmerson Mnangagwa, Nelson Chamisa (Citizens Coalition for Change) and Saviour  Kasukuwere (Independent). So far, we have heard speeches from Mnangagwa, whose message to the electorate is not clear on how he intends to guide Zimbabwe to an economic powerhouse if given another term.   Not to be outdone was Vice-President Constatino Chiwenga, who addressed supposed party supporters in Harare on Monday, where he promised to facelift Mbare Musika. The people of Mbare have not forgotten the government-sponsored destruction of informal businesses in June 2005, which affected approximately 80% of adults who were dependent on the informal sector. The last time Chiwenga visited Mbare he promised to build swimming pools for the residents and five years later, he appears again before the same people with a new promise to give a facelift to the city’s oldest high-density suburb.   Not even a single pool was constructed in Mbare since his last visit five years ago. People must interrogate and hold to account such leaders. It was easy to read the Zanu PF script, which has run out of ideas and has resorted to the same empty promises. Zanu PF has pledged to do everything possible to improve the lives of the citizenry, accusing the opposition-led local authorities of failing to deliver quality service to urban dwellers.   Zanu PF is seeking to score cheap electoral points. The ruling party has for the last two decades achieved nothing. Its political slogan is synonymous with tired political rhetoric. If you see a ruling party promising service delivery to the electorate at the last minute during election time as if it is an opposition party, then it’s time to dump that organisation because it will not deliver. Such a political entity does not have people at heart. Zimbabweans cannot let go this opportunity to vote for a new government that will create a better future for all citizens. - Leonard Koni I HAVE received several forwards of an article published by NewsDay. The article mentions me as one of the people involved in the scandal at the Council for Legal Education (CLE). It refers to a senior labour lawyer. It tries to link me to the past leak of examination papers at the University of Zimbabwe Law School. Firstly, I am the only labour lawyer on the CLE board and clearly everyone knows that. In terms of merits of that article, I am not the current chairperson of board of examiners at CLE, I do not mark papers at CLE or set examination papers. Secondly, I do not authorise printing of the certificates nor am I a signatory on current certificates. I was a chairperson with Gowora JCC before, not now. At the University of Zimbabwe, it’s common cause that the lecturer who leaked examinations was fired. I never printed nor was I part of that process. At no point was I involved in the scandal. I felt that there was need for the editor to have verified the facts before publishing the article. Can the article be retracted to the extent it seeks to mention people without evidence. - Rodgers Matsikidze IN a despicable act of terrorism, a Zanu PF official is seen on video instilling fear in villagers, threatening them that the killings of 2008 during the presidential elections will be repeated. The man says Citizens Coalition for Change (CCC) leader Nelson Chamisa will not take over power even if he wins because Zanu PF is a revolutionary party. A leader, who wishes to re-engage the international community and win back global confidence for Zimbabwe to develop and be accepted back to the Commonwealth, cannot  allow his lieutenants to terrorise communities. Zengeza West legislator Job Sikhala has been in remand prison for over a year for simply saying the avenging spirit of slain CCC activist Moreblessing Ali would torment her killers. This Zanu PF official who, from what he says, may be a council candidate, is threatening the lives of villagers. If President Emmerson Mnangagwa is sincere about a peaceful campaign, he will order, through the responsible minister, the arrest of this thug. I encourage the oppressed people of Zimbabwe to ignore these threats, which are meant to instil fear in them to vote for the discredited Mnangagwa and other Zanu PF candidates. People must know that as long as Zanu PF rigs the election and retains power, they will be subjected to the same terror in the next elections in 2028. We must use the power in our hands to ensure Zanu PF is resoundingly defeated once and for all. I have read that the European Union election observer mission will be arriving in the country soon. I would encourage the observer mission to deploy its officials more than a month before the elections and impress on Mnangagwa to restrain his thugs from harassing citizens and allow them to vote for who they choose. Zimbabweans should be able to make choices without being coerced by anyone. Zimbabwe needs a break from tyranny. Fellow Zimbabweans, use your vote wisely. - Kennedy Kaitano