THE Zimbabwe Catholic Bishops Conference (ZCBC) has, for years, been consistent in keeping government in check, especially when our leaders go astray. They always flagged government maladministration during the late former President Robert Mugabe’s era and were not even afraid to face the backlash.   Their latest call for the electorate to vote out merchants of violence in the August 23 general elections should not be ignored by any Zimbabwean who believes in the future of this country. Zimbabwe has had a history of holding violent elections, the worst being in 2008 when over 200 MDC supporters were killed after Zanu PF unleashed an orgy of violence to ensure Mugabe retained power at whatever cost. In 2018, at least six opposition supporters were shot dead while several others were injured in post-election violence.   And the call by the Catholic priests comes amid increasing reports of political violence in some parts of the country, mostly rural areas. The ZCBC said political parties and politicians who perpetrated violence do not deserve to be voted into public office. We agree. Zanu PF has already been flagged for intimidation and victimisation of villagers by two shadowy Zanu PF affiliates, Forever Associates Zimbabwe (FAZ) and Heritage Trust — both linked to State security agencies. FAZ and Heritage Trust are reportedly co-ordinating the ruling party’s campaigns to ensure President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s re-election.   Villagers are also being forced to attend Zanu PF meetings. Zanu PF has already started using its old tactics to whip people in line ahead of the votes. The calls by the bishops was mostly directed at the ruling party and its elements and those who are also in government. The governing party has access to everything that is needed to ensure peaceful elections in Zimbabwe so that the country removes the tag of being a pariah and an undemocratic state. The opposition parties, especially the Citizens Coalition for Change should also avoid stooping to the levels of their Zanu PF counterparts. The message is clear, if you want to win this election, listen to the church because Zimbabweans are known as a peaceful people who are pushed into violence by selfish politicians. Zimbabweans should also know that they cannot sacrifice their lives for undeserving leaders who want to rule them instead of being servant leaders.  We reiterate calls by the Catholic bishops that politicians should act responsibly to ensure peace prevails before, during and after the polls. The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission should also address concerns raised by citizens on issues under its jurisdiction while the media cannot also miss the message to provide balanced and fair coverage for all political parties. We have a responsibility as a country to ensure a peaceful environment for a free and fair election this year.