POPULAR tree bark weaver artist Thelma Boetrics has extended her bark-weaving prowess to dress codes, in addition to her popular catalogue of mats, hats, blankets and wall hangs. Speaking to NewsDay Life & Style at the Chitungwiza Arts Centre, Boetrics, who co-ordinates female craft makers and bark weavers in Chimanimani and Masvingo, believes cultural diversity can lead one to economic independence.   She notes that increased interaction of societies and nationalities can open up opportunities. “Cultural refinement is a personal drive that makes me come up with refined culturally-oriented gudza mats (a bark weaved blanket), hats and other artefacts. I am very conscious of the need to protect the environment,” she noted. “We only strip the bark from the tree twigs or small branches, boil it, pound it and then make our threads. I nurture trees of all kinds at my small plot in Domboshawa. I use natural dyes to colour on all my products.”   Boetrics, who has since set up One Culture Art Gallery where she serves herbal teas, traditional foods in addition to displaying and selling gudza products, says her weaving journey started at a tender age inspired by her mother. “The journey began when I was a young girl, and my mother would not allow us to retire to bed before we finished weaving either blankets, hats, mats or skirts. We slept and dressed in the comfort of these materials,” she said. “During the Culture Month we recently commemorated, I have noticed that there are quite a number of people who did not have access to information on the Culture Month. There is a need to relay the information to all communities so that no one is left behind and that is how we come to accept each other,” she noted. Boetrics has, however, challenged female artists to diversify their creativity, adding that to start with, they can learn bark weaving for any household and clothing attire they may need.   She noted that bark-weaved materials are strong and in the event of loosening up, they can be mended into shape again.