THE Tobacco Industry and Marketing Board (TIMB) has been accredited by Global Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) to produce safe food and fibre while safeguarding the environment and the welfare of farming communities. The development will help diversify farmers’ income.   GAP is an international trademark and set of standards for good agricultural practices and the board has become a member of this community to offer its stakeholders a one-stop agricultural export business platform. TIMB has several certified trainers or farm assurers who will be employing smart farming solutions during the 2023/24 production season to guide willing farmers to produce food and fibre crops that meet global export standards. “Tobacco growers are used to growing a high-value export crop. Therefore, we will employ innovation to enable successful agricultural diversification by producing alternative high-value export crops that meet the international market’s quality standards,” TIMB spokesperson Chelesani Tsarwe said in a statement.   In 2022, TIMB rebranded from being the icon of excellence in the production and marketing of Zimbabwe flavour tobacco to standing for livelihoods and sustainability. “This new tagline emphasises our focus on the key industry stakeholder, the farmer,” she added. Zimbabwe’s tobacco off-takers have expressed the need for sustainability in the industry, while the World Health Organisation’s framework convention for tobacco control outlines economic and legal measures to reduce the demand for tobacco. This has resulted in a marked decline in global tobacco consumption, even in markets that are key to Zimbabwe such as China, which has exposed many small-scale farmers who were already bearing the brunt of seasonal and volatile incomes which were increasingly being affected by climate change, market demand and other factors.   “The intention of diversification, therefore, is not to outrightly substitute the tobacco enterprise, but to complement it while sustaining and improving farmers’ livelihoods and promoting sustainability,” Tsarwe said. “Including alternative and alternate crops to tobacco farmers’ portfolio enhances farmers’ income as well as household food and nutrition security,” she said. To spearhead meaningful diversification, in line with the industry’s blueprint, the tobacco value chain transformation strategy, TIMB acquired Global GAP’s flagship standard, the integrated farm assurance plant scope V6. It takes a holistic approach to responsible farming and producers are trained to improve farm management, and operational efficiencies as well as protect the environment, and access to international markets through compliance to a globally recognised standard. TIMB is also pursuing other standards and in-depth supply chain studies while offering consultancy services on setting up agricultural export businesses, customs clearance and linking farmers to developed markets. Under this vision, alternative crops are expected to contribute 30% to the total income of a typical tobacco farmer by 2025.