POLITICS and leadership roles have traditionally been male-dominated, with women having limited opportunities to participate in public and political spaces in many societies. This historical under-representation has mostly impacted on the presence of women in Parliaments, particularly in African countries.   As Zimbabwe is headed for the August 23 harmonised elections, women groups have expressed concern over the low number of female candidates fielded by political parties for the general elections. Despite that political parties in Zimbabwe signed the “Women’s Charter” presented to them by women’s rights organisations on February 23, 2023, and pledged to abide by the tenets of the Constitution which provides for 50-50 representation, statistics released by the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) recently showed that the major political parties fielded less than 12% female candidates out of 210 National Assembly constituencies being contested. The ruling Zanu PF party fielded 23 women candidates (11%), while opposition Citizens Coalition for Change has 20 women candidates (10%) for the parliamentary seats.   This is in violation of sections 17, 56 and 80 of the Constitution, which call for gender equality in all sectors, including politics. Gender activists feel that failure to abide by the Women’s Charter shows lack of seriousness by political parties and that the signing of the charter was mere tokenism and a piecemeal attempt to silence aspiring and women leaders. According to the United Nations Women 2023 gender report, only 26,5% of parliamentarians are women, up from 11% in 1995 and globally, there are 22 States in which women account for less than 10% of parliamentarians in single or lower Houses, including one lower chamber with no women. Enhancing female representation in politics is a crucial step towards achieving gender equality.   Women constitute about half of Zimbabwe’s population, and their perspectives, experiences and voices deserve to be adequately represented and articulated in decision-making processes. The absence of female political leaders will have a demotivating effect, as there will be a dearth of role models for women. The absence of mentoring for women in politics will also limit knowledge and access to resources for political involvement. Strategies such as gender quotas, affirmative action, promotion of women leadership development programmes, and awareness campaigns on the importance of female representation should be implemented to increase women’s participation in political processes. Political parties should lead these efforts.