LINDANI Gumpo from Bulawayo and Harare's Patricia Ganya scooped the men and women Carling Black Label Pool national championships at the finals held in Masvingo over the weekend. The event attracted 128 players, 64 men and 64 women, from across the country.   Lindani Gumpo needed a playoff victory over Vincent Mupfudza to scoop US$1 500 cash prize as well as a pool table, while Ganya beat Alice Chihota in the final. There was also Carling Black Label merchandise for the winners. “I am very happy to win. I felt that I was going to win the final match from the beginning. Usually I have gitters at the start of a match, especially on the first frame, but today I started confidently. This is the first time I have qualified for the finals of this event,” the 38-year-old Gumpo said.   Gumpo is not new to pool and has played in Botswana where he won 10 000 Pula after finishing third in a local tournament back in 2015. Women champion Ganya has been playing pool for close to 30 years now and is a veteran of the sport in the country. The certified umpire and administrator described the win as a perfect retirement package for her. “I am very happy because I was just about to go on retirement; so now I have something that I take from this game because I have come very far with this game. Now I don't have pressure, but I have pleasure. My target coming here was to win the pool table and take it home this very night,” she said.   The 53-year-old said she has been able to send her children to school through the sport. Francisco Lunga finished third in the men's category while Judhis Kutamba was fourth. In the women category, Mercy Musekiwa and Jamila Monday were third and fourth respectively. There was prize money for top four players in each category. In a statement, Delta general manager corporate affairs, Patricia Murambinda said: “Carling Black Label has been sponsoring pool for more than 10 years and we continue to reward champions at play. Sport continues to play a role in building communities and resonates well with the  brands manifesto to inspire and rally individuals into being better versions of themselves whenever possible.” Follow us on Twitter @NewsDayZimbabwe