TWENTY-FIVE-YEAR-OLD author Evermore Kangani launched her second book titled Beauty for Ashes on Saturday, July 8, 2023 at Batanai Gardens where guest of honour Lameck Phiri paid US$100 for a copy of the US$10 novel. Speaking to NewDay Life & Style, Kangani said she borrowed the novel's title from the book of Isaiah (61:3) in the Old Testament which gives reference to Israelite’s promised recompense for their afflictions as a people. She added that she wrote the book from a very personal experience she emerged from to discover the beauty of life.   “When I wrote Beauty for Ashes l was going through a rough patch in life. To me the ashes are the hard deep period of life that people go through. I went through a hard break-up back in 2017 whereby I lost more than 10kg,” Kangani said. “During the heart-break phase I was also unemployed and I had lost hope in life, but that was when I found a deep intimacy with God and through reading the word I found hope and my healing process begun. I had to forgive myself for falling in love with the wrong person and not loving myself enough. Through that God started beautifying mylife and I got employed. Through that experience I decided to write this book.” Kangani’s book is about men and women who endure hardships, sorrow, heartache and persevere through thick and thin by trusting in God. It teaches people on how to get through life's ills by finding hope in Jesus Christ.   She said by establishing a good relationship with God and pouring out her heart to Him she reached a stage whereby things were working out in her favour. “To me prayer is my primary calling, there is no place like a place of prayer that I feel like I am talking and being vulnerable to God. Through that God is turning tables and even enabling me to write such a book that speaks to the deeper part of a person's life. My books are inspired by the Holy Spirit and without it I have nothing to write,” she added. Kangani is employed as a nurse and hopes to become a life coach in the near future and hopes that those who read her book experience healing and be able to forgive themselves as she did. “Through reading my book I want people to experience healing in all stages, be it childhood trauma, and be able to forgive those who have wronged them and forgive themselves as well,” she said.   “My book gives hope, we are living in a very uncertain economy, but through Christ we find hope. I hope one finds restoration from their losses or from feeling neglected.” The young author launched her first book: The Power of Prayer in November last year. “Compared to my first launch, this one was more successful and I have seen a lot of change in the way people are responding to my work,” she said.