CHITUNGWIZA-BASED chorister and music teacher George Tamisai, is an internationally acclaimed artiste who arguably has one of the most decorated display cabinets at his house. The talented artiste believes Zimbabwe’s musical heritage largely remains unexplored and untapped.   “We have a rich musical heritage in both traditional and contemporary genres in Zimbabwe that await to be tamed and arranged. More composers and practitioners should come up and continuously improve the art for it to sell,” he said. “The corporate world should come up in a strong way in support of choral music in order for it to grow and reach the whole of Zimbabwe as a business not just a church movement.” Tamisai directs the Glorious Melodies Choir and the Apostolic Faith Mission in Zimbabwe Azusa Assembly Church choirs.   He possesses a rare talent in both choral conducting and performance which in a way reflects his adoration and commitment to his trade. A bachelor of music graduate from Zimbabwe College of Music in conjunction with Africa University, he believes education and research have helped him attain several global accolades at a very young age. Tamisai reckons that choral music ensembles do not only unite communities, but are also the quickest way to investigate the sustainability of cultural diversity. He pointed out that choral ensembles can accommodate up to a hundred people who, if properly tamed through branding, can automatically become the voice of newness and awareness of life changing innovations.   His Glorious Melodies Choir is one of the local choirs which have won many hearts locally and abroad. The choir is renowned for spirited singing of Shona, Xhosa, Ndebele, Ndau and English gospel songs. “Glorious Melodies Choir is a community choir that recruits young and old vocal music talent in and around Chitungwiza. We have won several awards at different festivals in Zimbabwe and abroad notably the Old Mutual National Choral Festival where we came second-best in 2017 and 2019,” he said. “At the international level we have won the People’s Choice trophy and Gold certificates at the fourth edition of The Heart of Chorus International Festival in Shanghai China in 2019.” Speaking on his vision in the teaching of music, Tamisai said: “Teaching of music should be fun and simple so thatconcepts are easily grasped. There is also a need to teach music in all schools and churches as it plays a pivotal role in our daily lives. Trained personnel should help in this regard so that the levels are standardised and everyone sings the same melody through knowledge.”