KARIBA Publicity Association spokesperson Alois Chimbangu has expressed optimism that recent developments at the popular tourist destination will help boost the country’s tourism industry. Apart from the mesmerising Lake Kariba stretch of water, the tourist resort, located about 370km north-west of Harare, is also known for gorgeous sunsets and exciting fishing, beautiful scenery as well as impressive game viewing, particularly in the Matusadona National Park.   Chimbangu told NewsDay Life & Style yesterday that the resort town is getting a fresh revival that will help it regain its former glory. “Kariba is a paradise on earth that has remained a drawcard in terms of tourist attraction and significant developments like the proposed expansion of the Harare-Chirundu Highway will no doubt make it easier for tourists to access Kariba, thereby further boosting its appeal,” he said. “The arrival of a new airline, fastjet, is also another positive development that will help bring in more visitors to the town.   “This will be a welcome addition to the existing airlines already serving the area and as an association we value these initiatives and partnerships towards efforts to develop our resort town.” Kariba has also been experiencing a welcome surge in lodge investment. “We now have people from all over the world investing in Kariba’s economy. A variety of accommodation options, including camping and lodges, luxury safari camps as well as houseboats which cater for different budget groups, are now available,” Chimbangu noted. “This provides tourists with more options to stay and explore the resort town. On the other hand, social media has also played a significant role in promoting Kariba as a tourist destination, with many tourists sharing their experiences on different platforms. With the rising popularity of social media, I believe Kariba will continue to benefit from this trend.”   In addition to the latest developments, Kariba has been hosting many events that attract international visitors. “Recently, there was a charity event aimed at assisting under-privileged members of the community in our resort town hosted by Face of Kariba, an organisation which seeks to celebrate the beauty and significance of Kariba. “All of these new developments have given Kariba a renewed sense of hope for a brighter future, with its tourism industry leading the way. With its stunning scenery, rich culture, and new investments, Kariba is set to become a prime tourist destination once again,” he added.