DYNAMOS posterboy Denver Mukamba has urged the team's youngsters to work hard for them to earn the royal treatment that he enjoys from the club's supporters. The 2012 Soccer Star of the Year is the only remnant left in the squad from the team that last won the league title eight years ago.   Mukamba joined the club in 2011 and helped the club win the first of the four titles they went on to win on the trot  He dazzled the following season as DeMbare successfully defended the title, and he was deservedly named the best player in that season before he moved to South Africa. The club’s supporters have not forgotten about the good old days during his first stint with the club, and have taken every opportunity to fete him with cash donations everytime Dynamos is playing.   The fans even defied a directive by the supporters' leadership not to shower the player with cash, saying the practice had the potential to divide the dressing room. Mukamba said he deserve the treatment he is receiving from his fans, but has promised to share the donations with teammates. “Dynamos supporters believed in me and we all know that people will always have a player that they will like in the team," Mukamba said. “And I think they saw something good in me during my time when I joined the team as a young player and also achieved a lot with the team during that time.   “So when I returned they embraced me and I'm happy with their love and support and I think as the club turn 60 years this year, we hope that we can win the league title as a way of celebrating the milestone." Mukamba has made cameo appearances for the team this season, but is still embraced by the fans every week. “When I arrived at Dynamos I was also young but I managed to work my way through and I always tell this young stars how big this club is and the demands that comes with playing for it. “It needs one to work very hard for you to build your own name so that you can be appreciated by the fans like what they are doing to me and even noticed by other big teams and leagues around the world.  “So I always encourage them to work hard and become even soccer stars like what I also did when first joined the team in my youthful age,” he added. The "Sunday offering" practice has divided opinion in the domestic football scene. Mukamba said they have discussed it as a team and have found a solution to it. “We talked with the technical team about the issue and we came to the decision that if the supporters want to give me money it's fine but I’m also  open to share the money with my teammates because when we are playing I will not be alone. We are 30 players in the team and for us to achieve anything it will be a collective effort, so if they give me that  money I can share with my teammates, I have no problem with that," he said. Dynamos face bogey side Herentals at the National Sports Stadium this afternoon, and Mukamba believes it will not be an easy game. The Herbert Maruwa coached side are looking to bounce back to winning ways after they were frustrated to a goalless draw by Triangle last week. “We have been telling each other to pull up our socks and I believe we managed to rectify our mistakes that we did against Triangle. I think we are ready to collect maximum points going forward starting with our game against Herentals,” Mukamba said. Matchday Nine fixtures  Today: Herentals v Dynamos (National Sports Stadium), Bulawayo Chiefs v Sheasham (Luveve), Manica Diamonds v Chicken Inn (Gibbo) Tomorrow: Caps United v Hwange (National Sports Stadium), Triangle v Yadah (Gibbo), Highlanders v Simba Bhora (Barbourfields), Ngezi Platinum Stars v Fc Platinum (Baobab) Monday: Zpc Kariba v Black Rhinos (National Sports Stadium)