ORGANISERS of the annual National School Quiz Championships (NSQC), IAN P UNIVERSAL have partnered a global firm, Education For All (EDOOFA) — Anhad Edutrain Solutions (Pty) Ltd India for this year’s edition of the competition. NSQC are considered as the biggest televised academic sport that has been broadcast in over 80 countries and has awarded over ZAR6 million in scholarships since its 2012 pilot season in South Africa.   NSQC founder and chief executive producer Ian Venganai told NewsDay Life & Style that they aim to be global and partnering EDOOFA was a big step towards achieving that goal. “We are excited to be part of their (EDOOFA) cause to support education for all and empower our call for celebrating academic excellence. This will be by far a great adventure and successful collaboration with all stakeholders including the students,” Venganai said. “Our partners EDOOFA are offering 100% tuition scholarship to the winners of the national tournaments to study in India along with other prizes for the runner-ups. For more information to participate, those interested can visit www.ianpuniversal.org.”   He said the scholarships packages include a fully-funded scholarship with US$15 000 to US$20 000 per student for the entire course duration (excluding flights and visa), 100% scholarship on tuition fee amount US$10 000 to US$15 000 per student for the entire course duration (excluding flights, visa and accommodation). Also on offer is a 75% scholarship on tuition fee of US$8 000 to US$11 000 per student for the entire course duration (excluding flights, visa and accommodation) and 50% scholarship on tuition fee of US$6 000 to US$8 000 per student for the entire course duration (excluding flights, visa and accommodation). Venganai said this year the competition will start with the NSQC Convention (free and by invitation only) to be held at Ster Kinekor Sam Levy in Borrowdale, Harare on May 30 while the second phase has been set for June 3 at Ster Kinekor Bulawayo Centre. “This will be a first of its kind premium National School Quiz Championships convention where we are inviting schools from across the country to participate towards qualifying for the 2023 national championships in the run-up to the NSQC™ World Series 2024,” Venganai said.   “The convention will give schools an opportunity to be briefed about the NSQC World Series as well as on how to register to participate in the NSQC. We are excited to have our official NSQC sponsors EDOOFA who are offering prize scholarships to the winners as our guests of honour. “Schools will learn about the opportunity to study in India along with the scholarship prizes up for grabs for the winners of our tournaments. We look forward to hosting the schools at this prestigious event.” From Zimbabwe, the NSQC Convention heads to New Capitol Cinemas, RiverWalk Mall in Botswana.