Following hot on the heels of the hugely successful Vaka Ekhaya Property Conference held last year in Birmingham, the Vaka Ekhaya Football Tournament slated for Saturday 8 July in Warwick, headlines this summer’s events calendar. With a family-fun-day themed slant, this promises to a banger of an event as it promises to bring thousands of Zimbabweans from across the United Kingdom to enjoy the warm weather on a day where every family member gets to enjoy themselves.     The tournament wouldn’t have come at a more apt time that this as companies and brands seek to tap into the diaspora market which has grown exponentially in the last 24 months, as thousands of healthcare workers from Zimbabwe have come in to work and settle here. Last year’s property event attracted big brands namely Stanbic Bank, Old Mutual, Seerf Properties, Nyaradzo, Rawson Properties amongst others, and this year they are set to be joined by other players for engagements on a less formal and fun platform.   Diasporans need to invest back home but many times money is lost as relatives convert funds for other or personal uses. There is a gap in the market and this calls for genuine local brands to come up with solutions that speak to the market, instil confidence and encourage direct transactions rather than involving third parties. This can only be possible if there are active and direct engagements and such an event as this gives brands the opportunity for visibilty, awareness, and the ability to get invaluable insights from the market in a world where the one-size-fits-all concept has become obsolete.     Team registration has begun in earnest and is open to any social soccer team that wished to participate on the day. The organisers anticipate a maximum of 20 teams and registration is on a first come first served basis. There are a lot of prizes that will be won including prize money for the number 1 team.   There will be live entertainment throughout the day with Jah Signal, Qounfuzed and Vimbai Zimuto set to set the stage ablaze as they are the crowd favorites. There will be everything for everyone from the wise waters to braai and gango. Tickets are available on the Event Brite platform www.vaka.co.zw/event/ekhaya-2023.   To be part of this event corporates can contact the event organisers: Lyn - +44 7494 716 534  lyn@vaka.co.zw  or Ransome - +44 7888 299 465  ransome@vaka.co.zw