DYNAMOS coach Herbert Maruwa says he is pleased with the progress being shown by his new-look outfit, but admits that there is still a lot of work to be done for it to be a polished product. DeMbare clash with bogey side Herentals in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow afternoon, with Maruwa hoping his team will revert to winning ways after they were frustrated to a goalless draw by Triangle last week.   A section of the club's supporters once again jeered the team off the pitch, clearly unhappy with the performance. But Maruwa, who himself cut a frustrated figure following the draw, still thinks his team is improving by each day. "I'm very happy (with the progress). This is a completely new team, we started training in January and this is the second week of May and with the results we are getting, I'm happy," Maruwa said at his pre-match Press conference yesterday.   In his first seven league matches in charge of the team, Dynamos have managed three wins, drawn thrice and lost once — a 3-2 defeat by Bulawayo Chiefs. The team lies fourth on the log standings with 12 points, just three behind joint log leaders Highlanders and Caps United. Maruwa's men, who are looking to end an eight-year league title drought, have the second-best defence after Highlanders, as they have kept six clean sheets so far. "We have a young squad and what is needed is for them to quickly adjust to the demands of our supporters and the demands of the game at this level. But generally, the boys are coping."   A run of three winless games last month had left Maruwa under pressure, before a dominant win over Caps United a fortnight ago, eased the anxiety. But a section of the militant supporters was not amused after the Triangle draw. It was the manner in which the team stuttered against the Lowveld side that left them disillusioned on the direction the team is taking. Maruwa has, however, assured the hard-to-please supporters to be patient as he expects a correction from his boys tomorrow. "The team is in good shape. We drew against Triangle in the last game and we have to quickly forget about that game and make sure we go for three points in the next match." Herentals won this fixture 1-0 last season and the reverse game ended goalless. "It's a tricky game, we need to make sure mentally we are up there (because) they are our bogey side. This time around we need to make sure we are well prepared," Maruwa warned. Tensions are already building ahead of the match after the two teams yesterday clashed for the use of the match venue for training. Both were apparently booked at 11am, and after minutes of haggling, it was Herentals who prevailed with Dynamos moving to a 2pm slot. Matchday 9 fixtures  Today: Cranborne Bullets v Green Fuel (National Sports Stadium) Tomorrow: Herentals v Dynamos (National Sports Stadium), Bulawayo Chiefs v Sheasham (Luveve), Manica Diamonds v Chicken Inn (Gibbo) Sunday: Caps United v Hwange (National Sports Stadium), Triangle v Yadah (Gibbo), Highlanders v Simba Bhora (Barbourfields), Ngezi Platinum Stars v FC Platinum (Baobab) Monday: ZPC Kariba v Black Rhinos (National Sports Stadium)