NGEZI PLATINUM STARS . . . (1)2 FC PLATINUM . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .  0   NGEZI Platinum Stars made a huge statement in their quest for a maiden league title after beating fellow platinum miners FC Platinum to go top of the log standings in an entertaining match at Baobab Stadium yesterday. It was Ngezi Platinum's first win over their rivals at home since 2017 while the defeat meant that Pure Platinum Play have gone five matches without a win. The defending champions are currently struggling on in their title defence and have already conceded 11 goals in their first nine matches compared to 14 they leaked all year long last season.   Takesure Chiragwi appears to have transformed Ngezi Platinum Stars into genuine title contenders this season with a team awash with youthful exuberance. Youngsters Tinotenda Murasiranwa and Takunda Benhura scored a goal in each half to ensure maximum points for the Mhondoro-Ngezi side. The team remains unbeaten, along with Highlanders, this season so far.    Chiragwi was elated following the win over the defending champions considering his team played midweek against Black Rhinos. "I think we prepared for this game very well. I want to congratulate the youngsters. We went to Harare to play Black Rhinos (on Wednesday) and that game was not easy, we lost a lot of energy. I didn't expect them to perform this way but I think what we did well was to manage the recovery of the players," he said after the game. "Coming to the game I think we did well where we wanted to diffuse the strength of FC Platinum. We know it's a team that can play a passing game like us, so we let them play so that we can press them high. We took a risk to put all the youngsters to add speed and energy and  it worked very well, hence we managed to get the two goals from those strikers Takunda  and Tino which is good for the team. I am happy we managed to get a win at home which is good for the fans," Chiragwi added The first half without a doubt belonged to the host who took the game to FC Platinum. Murasiranwa broke the deadlock about 11 minutes before the break benefiting from a Tapiwa Mandinyenya freekick to poke the ball home. FC Platinum players protested as they felt there was a handling offence by Ngezi Platinum's Polite Moyo before the goal while they also felt goalkeeper Francis Tizayi was fouled in the process. Coach Norman Mapedza had to storm into the pitch to calm tempers as players mobbed the referee Edward Mucharambei. Nelson Chadya denied FC Platinum an equaliser diving low to turn a brilliant Walter Musona freekick round the post five minutes before the break. Benhura doubled the scores five minutes into the second half, taking a speculative shot that took a huge deflection off Gift Bello and looped over Tizayi. Ellson Mweha showed defensive capabilities with a majestic block to deny Musona who had the keeper to beat inside the box in the 63rd minute. Musona summed up FC Platinum's day, blazing over after latching onto a loose ball in the box late on. Mapedza felt his players lost the plot after they protested the first goal. "We could have done better with the two goals. I don't know what transpired, but I think the guys got so emotional and it disturbed our game completely. This is the second time I have had to go into the pitch to tell the guys let's keep playing," Mapeza said. "It's not good but if i didn't go there I don't know what was going to happen. From that moment the guys lost it. I told them in the dressing room that they need to control their emotions but they are the ones inside the pitch who can see what is happening. But it's congratulations to Ngezi, they deserved the three points." This was a third loss for FC Platinum so far this season as they go through an uncharacteristic difficult patch. Teams Ngezi Platinum Stars: N Chandya, K Chigwida, G Madhake, P Moyo, T Murasiranwa (Q Amino 76'), M Mukumba, T Mandinyenya (M Mushonga 66'), W Vuwa( M Kwinjo 66'), L Kashitigu, T Benhura( D Murimba 90'), E Mweha ( M Gaki 76') FC Platinum: F Tizayi, L Mhlanga (G Mbweti 22) , G Bello, M Ngwenya ( R Pavari 87'), K Mangiza, H Magaya, B Banda (J Mutudza 46'), I Mucheneka, J Selemani, W Musona, T Ngwenya ( E Chikwende 60')