YADAH . . . . . . . . . . . (0) 1  HERENTALS . . . . . . . . . 0   Yadah FC’s second half substitute Charles Moffat smashed home a superb volley to give his side a much-needed win over rivals Herentals at the National Sports Stadium yesterday. With the Miracle Boys desperate to secure their first league victory in five matches, the diminutive midfielder, who came in at the restart, changed the complexion of the game with some eye-catching darting runs in the opposition box. On 71st minute, he secured the win for his side with a first time volley from outside the box, catching a rebounding ball perfectly to leave Herentals third choice goalkeeper Prosper Chigumba rooted to the spot, much to the delight of Yadah sponsor Scott Sakupwanya who watched from stands for the match.   The visibly delighted businessman addressed the squad soon after the match where he expressed his joy on the way the team had gone about their business. Yesterday's victory arrested a five-match winless run for Yadah who moved out of the relegation zone onto 12th position with 11 points. “Thumbs up to the guys, they are progressing in each and every game,” Yadah coach Expense Chitukutu said. Herentals have not beaten Yadah since the Students were promoted into the topflight league and their woes continued yesterday, with their coach Kumbirai Mutiwekuziva blaming the latest setback on complacency and lack of intensity from his men.   “We normally play with intensity and a lot of transitions. This is what we lacked today. We did not give enough of our effort because we thought it was going to be a walkover against Yadah. My players were overconfident and that on its own made us to make a lot of mistakes and brought Yadah into the context,” Mutiwekuziva said. Herentals, who also have 11 points but are positioned on number 10 on the log standings due to their better goal difference, had both first and second choice goalkeepers Takudzwa Chikosi and Nevermind Antonio suspended for this match for time-wasting related offences. Both sides struggled to hit the target in this match, but Mandlenkosi Mlilo hit the cross bar in the first half while Yadah goalkeeper Panashe Nyabunga made two good saves to deny Archmore Majarira and Milton “Pogba” Chimedza as the two sides went to the break deadlocked. Both coaches made a raft of changes at the start of the second half, but it was Yadah's jersey number 45 who had a huge impact. As the game opened up in the second half with the two teams searching for an opener, Moffat sidefooted a thunderous shot that flew past the goalkeeper into the top right-hand corner, a goal which merited his fine individual perfomance. Herentals poured men forward in search of an equaliser, but they could not create any meaningful chances as Yadah closed out the game without much of a  hustle.