GOSPEL musician Everton Mlalazi is in a class of his own. His latest offering In The Presence Vol 2 — God’s Grace album says it all. On Saturday, he flew Grammy award-winning South African male choral group Ladysmith Black Mambazo into the country for the In The Presence Vol 2 — God’s Grace, Worship with Everton Mlalazi concert at 7 Arts Theatre in Avondale, Harare.   The concert was strictly by invitation as it also served as a pre-birthday celebration for Mlalazi, who turns a year older today. A member of the Seventh Day Adventist Church, Mlalazi was born on May 22, 1982. At the concert, the award-winning Mlalazi was joined by his friends, fellow artistes, business partners and business moguls who included Kudakwashe Tagwirei as well as some lucky fans who had the privilege to win tickets.   The world-famous Ladysmith Black Mambazo came for the concert having collaborated with Mlalazi on the hit track Nomakunje — which has an accompanying live recorded video. This song is among other tracks which have continued to catapult Mlalazi to gospel music stardom, having dominated pole position on the country’s three radio stations. According to Mlalazi, Nomakunje is meant to encourage and give hope to those on the verge of giving up on life. It was a great night for guests who were treated to an exceptional live performance of the song by the two artistes separated by the Limpopo River.   To give the guests real value of their time, Ladysmith Black Mambazo came on stage twice on different breaks for the Nomakunje collaborative performance. Shortly after their final performance, Ladysmith Black Mambazo said they were open for collaborations with local artistes. “We are very happy to be here in Zimbabwe and we love the collaboration we did with Everton Mlalazi. It has been a very great journey recording the song and performing it on stage,” the group’s vocalist Sibongiseni Shabalala noted. “We also look forward to any artiste from Zimbabwe who wants to collaborate with Ladysmith Black Mambazo, we are open to collaborations.” Mlalazi encouraged local artistes to be consistent in their work, giving Ladysmith Black Mambazo as an example of the epitome of consistency in their work which has clocked 63 years since its establishment in 1960. “I just want to speak to somebody who is here, businesspeople I see you, business colleagues I see you, just behind you are talented artistes from this country, Zimbabwe, who are struggling day by day to try and record music,” he noted. “I just want to trust you to walk this journey with them as you also support some of the brilliant talents this country has whose voices have not been amplified because they do not have support systems. “There are groups here, Zimpraise, Pastor G, Minister Michael Mahendere, Joseph Madziyire, I see you Thembalami, all these people need your support.” It turned into a special night for Mlalazi when seasoned singer Prince Mafukidze performed the gospel artiste’s inspirational song Chitsike courtesy of his wife Pretty Gamuchirai’s effort as a way of celebrating and honouring the man he is to her and the family. Another memorable moment for Mlalazi was when his daughter, Natasha, led in singing the famous Happy Birthday To You song for her daddy in front of the packed auditorium. Backed by his Worship Therapy band, Mlalazi’s playlist at the concert was a mixture of both old and new tracks. Some of the songs performed on the night included Nyashe Dzashe, I Surrender, Ekhaya, I Need Thee and Pfugama Unamate, his collaboration with Minister Michael Mahendere which they jointly performed much to the delight of guests. Also, part of the playlist was My Father’s House, his collaboration with South Africa’s songbird and former Joyous Celebration member Xolly Mncwango, Mwari Hamushanduki (Lord You Do Not Change or Thixo Awuguquki) which features another celebrated South African singer and producer Benjamin Dube and Inyang’Enkulu, a collaboration with a South African Grammy award-winning Soweto gospel choir among others songs. Since he launched his professional music career in June 2020 with two singles Jesus is The Answer (a cover of Andrea Crouch’s song) and Uyingcwele, a worship song which calls for remembrance of the Holiness of the Lord, Mlalazi has never looked back and continues to perfect his craft. Mlalazi has accepted that for him, music is a ministry he uses to evangelise and touch the lives of many, just like how pastors and minister evangelise through Bible. He saluted his family (two children Keisha and Natasha, and wife Pretty Gamuchirai), describing them as his support system in everything he does.