NOW that we anticipate that this year’s harmonised election will be held in August, the opposition has only two months to campaign vigorously in order to take over power. This election should be a decider for Zimbabweans to either swim or sink into political, social and economic quagmire.   The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) should be professional and facilitate a free and fair election which will usher in a government of the people, led by the people and for the people. This is an election which must decide the future of the next generation and put Zimbabwe back to its glory days. To patriotic and progressive Zimbabweans, this is the chance to ensure that you vote in numbers and win big for the country.   There should be no room for violence like what happened in the past elections. Zanu PF supporters have a penchant for violence. The country needs peace before, during and after the elections. We have more pressing issues that need to be resolved in Zimbabwe.   There has been no meaningful development for a long time owing to the politicisation of everything in this country. As President Emmerson Mnangagwa is trying to have Zimbabwe readmitted to the Commonwealth, it will not be an easy ride for him as Zimbabwe is seemingly not serious in terms of implementing reforms that were recommended by various foreign election observer missions. These reforms are key to free and fair elections. The forthcoming elections will determine whether Zimbabwe will be readmitted or not. Zanu PF has destroyed nearly everything, from infrastructure to people’s lives, stripping them of their dignity as a result of its misrule. The level of corruption and economic decay in the country has reached alarming levels, with the Zimbabwean dollar now a worthless currency no one wants to have in their pockets. It’s now crystal clear that Zanu PF and the so-called second republic cannot be trusted again with another term of governance. It is not fit for purpose. Zimbabweans cannot afford to be burdened with the Zanu PF yoke again for the next five years. Zec must be independent as provided for under the Constitution and not be captured by Zanu PF and the securocrats. A peaceful and credible election is the panacea for good governance and economic development. Zec must be clean for it to expected to deliver a free election. The independence and neutrality of this institution is critical for the holding of free, fair and credible elections. Zimbabwe cannot afford to have another disputed election. A level playing field is achievable.-Leonard Koni   Kelly Rusike death: Zim left poorer WE are deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Kelly Rusike, the legendary Jazz Invitation front man and Zimbabwean jazz bassist. He was a veteran producer, writer, arranger, and sound engineer, owning Shed Productions, a major recording Production House in Zimbabwe that produced numerous audio commercials, jingles and songs. Kelly’s contributions to the Zimbabwean music industry will always be remembered, particularly his timeless works such as Cecilia, BP Yangu Yakwira, and the Ngwerewere Sadza jingle. Our hearts go out to his family, friends, and all those who knew him. May his dear soul rest in peace.-Citizens Coalition for Change   AfDB annual meetings an ideal setting for concrete proposals towards inclusive sustainable growth IF Africa achieves inclusive growth and sustainable development, it will lift millions out of poverty and provide a better future for its citizens. In a global context marked by multiple global crises since the emergence of COVID-19 in 2020, Africa has shown resilience. Amid headwinds, the continent continues to show positive economic growth. According to the African Development Bank’s Africa’s Macroeconomic Performance and Outlook the continent’s real gross domestic product (GDP) could expand by an average of 4% in 2023-24. This is above the global averages of 2,7% and 3,2%. This shows that 53 of the bank’s 54 African member countries increased their GDP in 2022, which could continue in the next two years. The additional wealth created is expected to exceed 5% in several countries, including the Democratic Republic of Congo (6,8%), The Gambia (6,4%), Togo (6,3%), Libya (12,9%), Mozambique (6,5%), Niger (9,6%) and Senegal (9,4%). Even so, apart from climate risks, many challenges remain, such as poverty and inequality, which, albeit declining, remain a concern. AfDB is dedicating its 2023 annual meetings, scheduled to run from today to May 26 in Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt, to “mobilising private sector financing for climate and green growth in Africa”. The stakes are high. If Africa achieves inclusive growth and sustainable development, it will lift millions out of poverty and provide a better future for its citizens. These cross-cutting issues are the priorities of the bank, which has committed to supporting African countries to achieve inclusive growth and sustainable development through its “High 5” strategic objectives: “Light up and power Africa”, “Feed Africa”, “Industrialise Africa”, “Integrate Africa” and “Improve the quality of life for the people of Africa”. Financing is a critical issue that will dominate discussions at Sharm El Sheikh. African countries’ capacities to mobilise domestic resources are limited partly due to poorly diversified economies, the persistence of illicit financial flows, difficult access to international capital markets, and, above all, the disproportional concentration of global development resources. That is why AfDB advocates for greater deconcentration of official development assistance and a greater role for regional multilateral development banks. Participants will discuss how to ensure more robust nominal growth, develop a financial sector that serves local businesses, and define a debt strategy for African countries to enable them to have the fiscal space to mobilize more resources. Achieving an inclusive and sustainable future for the people of Africa is a complex challenge. AfDB advocates for a holistic approach and the involvement of all stakeholders. Governments, the private sector, civil society, and international partners are at the forefront. The Sharm El Sheikh discussions provide another opportunity to strengthen the mobilisation of ideas and move forward on solutions to serve this ambition. Fabio Scala