IAN P UNIVERSAL has dangled a $1 million prize to a lucky artist who masters the art of emceeing at the forthcoming Zim hip-hop vs Zim dancehall television show contest. The show is dubbed Ian P Cyphers.   The executive producer and creator of the show Ian Venganai, known in the showbiz circles as Mr Prime, told NewsDay Life & Style that they have opened registration for the battle that is open to all talented emcees from across the country. “The producers of Ian P Cyphers television show will be recording its first round of auditions on June 10 and 11 in Harare at a secret venue which only be accessed by artistes who would have registered to contest in the competition,” Mr Prime said. The show aims to attract over 100 contestants from across Zimbabwe who believe they have lyrical skills to win the battle.   “Through this show, we seek to impact dreams and potential in talented artists living in poverty. We want to create a platform for self-expression accompanied by opportunities of mentorship for business and personnel development,” he noted. “The Ian P Cyphers television show is designed and developed with intent to search, discover, showcase and promote young talent from across Zimbabwe to the world. The project’s main message is to #EndHunger, alleviate poverty, empower youth through their natural talents and skills with an incentivised prize of $1 million tagged with the campaign #RhymeForAmillion.” Mr Prime continued: “The Ian P Cyphers television show will be hosted by the trio of charismatic presenters Lenon Gwara also known as Mic Sprinter to the entertainment industry, the project also introduces new presenter talents in the name of Carol Neshava, a University of Zimbabwe student and the up-and-coming Plumtree born socialite Thickiana born Zibusiso Sharon Ncube.” “We have partnered 3Ktv which airs on DStv’s channel 293 with the project set to broadcast its pilot season starting from June 15 at 8pm every Thursday.”   Mr Prime said as Ian P Universal, their goal was to unearth and give hidden talents platforms to showcase their abilities. “Will package the series of these battle competitions into a series for licensing to local broadcasters and international networks. The pilot series in Zimbabwe will kick-start the road to the BET or MTV or Grammy awards for our young local artists. The same will be said for Zambia, Malawi, Angola, Mozambique, Tanzania, Kenya and Botswana in the near future,” he noted. A pioneer of Alpha Media Holdings’ Heart & Soul Broadcasting Services, Mr Prime, is not new to the development of franchisable television shows. With experience spanning for over two decades in the industry, Mr Prime has mastered the art of collaboration across many television properties partnering with organisations such as SABC and Multichoice. “As Ian P Universal, the producers of the Ian P Cyphers television show, we have 20 years of experience in television content creation with over 30 television show titles and most of them being primetime shows. We have also founded and built tele-radio stations in Zimbabwe and Botswana,” Mr Prime said. “We have a global partnership of collaborators that have contributed to the success of televised academic sports such as National Schools Quiz Competition, COTUC, Saywhat quiz challenge, Saywhat Sassi debate series, with franchise shows such as Meet The CEO, Meet The Principal and many more. “We have also served SABC, Dstv Mnet, Channel O, BTV, ZNBC, Swazi TV, 3Ktv, ZBC including American-based networks Kweli TV and Amazon Prime.” @widzonato