ZIMBABWE, like many other African countries, can introduce brain gain through various strategies. Brain gain refers to the net inflow of human capital into a country. It is vital for African countries to attract, retain and harness the skills and expertise of its citizens living abroad so as to drive development. Below are a few ways in which Zimbabwe can introduce brain gain. Brain drain and brain gain   Brain drain is the loss suffered by a country as a result of the emigration of a (highly) qualified person, while brain gain is when a country benefits as a consequence of immigration of a highly qualified person. The movement of skilled workers internationally represents brain gain for the countries which reap their skills and experience and brain drain for their countries of origin. On the brain gain side of the divide, countries are increasingly looking to position their immigration policies to attract international workers and students whose skills they desire. On the brain drain side, the development impacts of losing educated workers are being assessed in immigrant-sending and receiving countries. Effects of brain drain   The migratory waves that have taken place in recent decades have led to dramatic changes in the global economic landscape as countries compete for a share of highly qualified human capital. Although evidence suggests that developing countries suffer the most from brain drain, nonetheless the effects can be interpreted either positively or negatively according to the perspective of the source country, the receiving country, or the migrant. Brain drain or the exodus of human capital often has a big impact on developing nations. It often leaves a hole that is hard to fill since there may not be as many people with similar skills to fill that void. It also leads to a loss in tax revenue, which can lead to higher taxation to make up for the shortfall. The main effect is “brain waste”. Brain gain strategies Develop policies that promote brain gain. Zimbabwe can develop policies that attract expert returnees, encourage diaspora investments and foster collaboration with the countries where the diaspora is currently based. Government agencies and interest groups can collaborate in creating policies that are structured to cater for the needs of their target skills. The Zimbabwean government must work on strategies to lure skilled manpower back to the country and the only way it can attract such is by having attractive policies that enables them to contribute back home.   Simplify the investment process Zimbabwe has simplified its investment processes through the establishment of the Zimbabwe Investment Authority (Zida). Zida is tasked to implement the necessary reforms in creating a conducive business climate. Through its “One Stop Investment Service Centre,” Zida has created a single point entry for all investors. Zida is meant to facilitate investment in Zimbabwe in all areas, be it in special economic zones or otherwise though we feel more needs to be done again to simplify the investment process, particularly for Zimbabweans in the diaspora. It should be easy and affordable for a Zimbabwean who wants to invest back home than a foreigner. By streamlining bureaucracy and red tape, individuals can navigate the procedures and processes necessary for investing in the country quickly. Resource brain gain initiatives and promote entrepreneurship The government needs to commit and allocate resources to brain gain initiatives. These resources can then be used to support professional development programmes, conferences and workshops aimed at attracting the diaspora and providing an enabling environment for their operations. Zimbabwe can promote entrepreneurship among the diaspora, particularly in sectors where the country has a significant competitive advantage. Such sectors include agriculture, mining and manufacturing. By providing incentives, such as easy access to funding and mentorship, diaspora entrepreneurs may feel more encouraged to invest in these areas. Encourage private sector participation The private sector plays an important role in attaining a satisfactory development level and its inclusion may contribute to strengthening connections between displacement, migration and sustainable development. The private sector can play a vital role in supporting brain gain initiatives because it is the engine of economic growth and job creation. The role the private sector plays in development is also broadening from the conventional approach of supporting economic development to more inclusive and elaborated public private partnerships. Government can encourage private sector participation by facilitating partnerships with diaspora networks, supporting them in the establishment of business operations and collaborating with them on projects. Reversing brain drain Zimbabwe can develop a digital platform dedicated to engaging the diaspora and enabling them to keep up to date with investment opportunities and access to expert networks. Reverse brain drain is a form of brain drain where human capital moves in reverse from a more developed country to a less developed country that is developing rapidly. These migrants may accumulate savings, also known as remittances, and develop skills overseas that can be used in their home country. The occurrence of reverse brain drain mostly depends on the state of the country’s development and also strategies and planning over a long period to reverse the migration. Countries which are attractive to returning intelligentsia will have migration policies that lure foreign academics, professionals and executives. Zimbabwe can introduce brain gain through a combination of initiatives aimed at attracting and retaining experts from abroad and collaborations with the diaspora communities. By implementing policies which facilitate ease of doing business, expanding training and mentorship opportunities, Zimbabwe can have a united commitment towards achieving collective goals, development and growth.