DYNAMOS coach Herbert Maruwa has singled out inform Manica Diamonds striker Fortune Binzi as a big threat when the two teams meet at the National Sports Stadium on Sunday, but denied that they had a plan to deal with him. Binzi has been scoring for fun since he was given a chance following the injury to first choice striker Donald Ngoma, netting an incredible eight goals in his last four matches for the Ngoda Boys team.   His scoring record include a double against ZPC Kariba in a 3-0 win, a hat-trick against Black Rhinos in a 4-0 rout, a single goal to earn a point in a thrilling 2-2 draw against defending champions FC Platinum and another brace when the Jairos Tapera-coached side defeated last season's runners-up Chicken Inn 2-0 last week. While acknowledging the former Yadah striker's good form, Maruwa believes the rejuvenated Manica Diamonds are more than Binzi, saying that focusing on one player would be disastrous for the Harare giants. “We will deal with Manica Diamonds as a team but the boy (Binzi) has been doing very well,” Maruwa said in his pre-match Press conference yesterday.   “But we are also not conceding easily, so we expect a good game where we will try to make sure we neutralize him.” Maruwa will go into the match looking to end a two-match winless run for his side after goalless draws against Triangle and Herentals. Tapera in contrast has won four of his last six games. In that period, his team lost 1-0 to log leaders Ngezi Platinum Stars and drew with FC Platinum. Maruwa acknowledged the difficulty of facing an inform side.   “We need to concentrate on the game against Manica which is going to be a tough match. We will need to be at our best to get maximum points.” “Manica Diamonds are doing very well and we expect them to come and play an open game. It's going to be an interesting game.” The Manica Diamonds clash will be a start of a busy and what on paper looks like a tough week for the Glamour Boys. After the Sunday match, they will travel to Bulawayo to face Highlanders on Africa Day in the two teams' outstanding fixture before making a short trip to Mhondoro Ngezi for a clash against the log leaders at the weekend. “We are taking one game at a time. Yes, it's going to be a busy week for us but we are ready,” Maruwa said. While Binzi and Manica Diamonds have been raking in goals almost at will, Dynamos on the other hand has been struggling to find the net and it appears Maruwa is still figuring out some combinations upfront. Last week, he started with a new pairing of Emmanuel Paga and Eli Ilunga up top, and the two forwards, to their credit, troubled the Herentals defenders but still  couldn't get the needed goals. “They did very well in terms of penetration and getting shots on target. They tried their best but it appears some of these guys are lacking confidence in front of goal. “I'm very happy with the way Ilunga played. We have to keep pushing him and try to bring his confidence back.” Dynamos have scored nine goals in their opening eight matches of the season, in comparison to Manica Diamonds' 14 after nine rounds of matches. But DeMbare's strength is at the back where they have just let in three goals so far, all conceded in one match against Bulawayo Chiefs. Manica Diamonds have conceded seven goals. “We did not score in the last two games but I can assure you goals are going to come,” Maruwa assured. “We just need to keep working hard at training and make sure we improve the team in attacking areas.” He also confirmed reports that the team has invited psychologists to work with the players. They did the same ahead of the Harare derby clash with Caps United which they convincingly won. That was the last time they won a match. “Yes, there are guys that have been coming during our training sessions to psyche up the guys, to try and bring confidence in the team especially the attackers.” Recent history between these two sides favour Dynamos who completed a double over Manica Diamonds last season, winning the two matches with an identical 1-0 scoreline. Matchday 10 fixtures Today: Yadah v Herentals (National Sports Stadium) Tomorrow: Chicken Inn v Ngezi Platinum Stars (Luveve), GreenFuel v Black Rhinos (Gibbo), Cranborne Bullets v Highlanders (National Sports Stadium), FC Platinum v ZPC Kariba (Mandava) Sunday: Dynamos v Manica Diamonds (National Sports Stadium), Hwange v Triangle (Colliery), Sheasham v Caps United (Mandava). Monday: Simba Bhora v Bulawayo Chiefs (National Sports Stadium) Thursday: Highlanders v Dynamos (Barbourfields)