ZIMBABWE Cricket have named a strong side for their six-match One Day series against touring Pakistan A starting today at Harare Sports Club. All the matches will be played at Harare Sports Club.   Zimbabwe are ramping up preparations for the International Cricket Council World Cup qualifiers that will be played in Bulawayo and Harare next month. The selectors have assembled a 15-player squad which pretty much reflects the team that Zimbabwe will use to fight it out for one of two places still available at the World Cup. The notable absentee is Sikandar Raza who is involved at the Indian Premier League and will proceed to the United States where he has been picked to play at the Major League.   Zimbabwe recently lost batsman Gary Ballance who quit cricket in a huff. He had been expected to play a major role in the team's push for a place at the global showcase that will be hosted by India. Milton Shumba has found his way back, having been frozen out due to poor form. This will be his big opportunity to try and force himself into the qualifiers' squad.   Sean Williams, Craig Ervine, Wessly Madhevere and Blessing Muzarabani are all set to feature against the strong Pakistan A side. The visitors have a 16-man squad in place which includes eight, who have played for their national side. They will be hoping Mehran Mumtaz continues on  a good run having taken 15 wickets in the two four-day matches they played against Zimbabwe A. Saim Ayub, who is expected to bolster Pakistan's batting, told the Pakistan Cricket Board website that he is looking forward to the six matches. “Representing the Pakistan men's team in T20Is has been an incredible experience, and I'm thrilled to bring that valuable experience to the Shaheens for this 50-over series against Zimbabwe Select," he said. “I'm looking forward to the series with great anticipation. We have performed well in the four-day matches, but this is a new series and we respect Zimbabwe as opponents. “The preparations at the Harare Sports Club have been intense and focused. We have been working hard on all aspects of our game, from batting to bowling and fielding. The coaching staff has left no stone unturned to make sure we are well-prepared for the series.” Zimbabwe Select Ryan Burl, Tendai Chatara, Craig Ervine, Brad Evans, Innocent Kaia, Clive Madande, Wessly Madhevere, Tadiwanashe Marumani, Wellington Masakadza, Brendon Mavuta, Blessing Muzarabani, Richard Ngarava, Milton Shumba, Sean Williams. Pakistan Shaheens Imran Butt (captain), Hussain Talat (vice-captain), Aamir Jamal, Abdul Wahid Bangalzai, Haseebulh (Quetta), Kamran Ghulam (Peshawar), Mehran Mumtaz, Mir Hamza, Mohammad Ali,  Mohammad Huraira , Mubasir Khan,  Omair Bin Yousuf, Qasim Akram, Rohail Nazir (wicketkeeper), Saim Ayub and Shahnawaz Dahani. One Day Schedule 1st One Day May today, 2nd One Day May 19, 3rd One Day May 21, 4th One Day May 23, 5th One Day May 25, 6th One Day May 27.