Former Warriors captain Knowledge Musona was on the losing side when he had the opportunity to rub shoulders with global superhero Cristiano Ronaldo after his Saudi Pro League side Al Tai FC hosted Al Nassr at Prince Abdul Aziz bin M'saed Stadium on Tuesday night. Ronaldo, who joined Al Nassr in January, was on target after he opened the scoring from the penalty spot early in the second half as his team ran out 2-0 winners.   Brazilian Talisca killed off the game as a contest 10 minutes before full-time. Sitting in second place on the log standings, Al Nassr desperately needed the three points to keep alive hopes of beating pacesetters Al Ittihad to the title. Al Nassr are just three points behind Al Ittihad who have 63 points from 27 matches with just three matches remaining in the season   Musona's team, currently seventh in the division, hoped to have their revenge on the 2-0 defeat they suffered away at Al Nassr back in January just a day after they unveiled Ronaldo in a big money move. After Ronaldo missed the reverse fixture, it was Musona's chance to finally come face to face with the football phenomenon. Musona has been one of Al Tai's top performers this season having scored seven league goals and is three behind joint top scorers at the club Amir Sayoud and Guy Mbenza while he is 18th on the goal scoring charts for the competition. The 32-year-old Zimbabwean star has also chipped in with six assists in his 26 matches for the club so far and is only second to Al Taawoun's Kaku who has eight in the league.   But against Al Nassr, Musona struggled to make an impact, managing just three shots after playing the entire match having recorded a goal and an assist in the previous two appearances for the club. Ronaldo's goal against Al Tai was his 13th in 14 matches since his January move to Saudi Arabia and is the league's fifth top scorer. The current top scorer is Abderazzak Hamdallah who has netted 20 times for Al Ittihad, with Nigerian Odion Ighalo, who plays for Al Hilal, on 17 and Ronaldo's teammate Talisca third with 16 goals.