EAGLES Women’s cricket franchise coach, Trevor Garwe etched his name in history after winning back-to-back domestic titles in  the just-ended cricket season. The former Zimbabwe pace bowler kicked off his coaching campaign on a winning note as he claimed the Zimbabwe Women's One Day and the Twenty20 competition last year.   He went on to repeat the same heroics last weekend as Eagles dismissed Mountaineers and Rhinos by identical nine-wicket victories in the T20 and One Day competitions on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. "The girls played particularly well across every department. After winning both titles on the land in the previous season obviously the motivation will be defending the trophies and that's what we did," Garwe told NewsDay Sport. "It was a team effort, everyone chipped in and made sure that at the end of it all it looked much easier than what it was on the field. The truth of the matter is that the games were tight."   The destroyer-in-chief was teenage all-rounder, Kelis Ndhlovu who enjoyed a purple patch with both bat and ball. Garwe, a former Lady Chevrons bowling coach has now switched his focus to the national team. "I think the main focus now is our national team as I am involved with the national team as the assistant coach. We want to try and get the framework and body by drafting in the next generation of players into the national team," he said. "Under the guidance of our head coach (Gary Brent) we make sure that we work hard with them with the help of the senior guys so that we improve our rankings as a nation."   He is getting used to his new role as assistant, a position he was elevated to following the death of Sinikiwe Mpofu early this year. "It's never easy to actually fill in those big shoes left following the untimely death of Sneeze but I'm actually getting used to it, getting help of senior coaches around me," added Garwe.  "It's actually proving to be a bit easier for me because we have got the senior coaches, Gary Brent and Walter Chawaguta so I'm actually learning a bit quicker that way."