Blessing Muzarabani starred with both bat and ball to help the Zimbabwe select claim an 80-run victory over touring Pakistan A at Harare Sports Club yesterday. Zimbabwe Select took a 2-nil lead in the six-match series which they are using to fine tune for the International Cricket Council World Cup qualifiers which it will host in June and July.   The wins are a confidence boost as the Chevrons look to build momentum going into the qualifiers, but them getting challenged and coming out of difficult situations is probably what pleases them the most. Yesterday was another big challenge which they overcame thanks to a 24-ball 50 and bowling figures of 4 for 23 from 6,3 overs by Muzarabani. Zimbabwe made a bad start to their innings as they batted first, being reduced to 57 for 7 before an 88 run sixth wicket stand between Ryan Burl (47 off 60 balls) and Clive Madande (43 off 44 balls) helped dig the hosts out of the hole.   After the two departed there was little else before Zimbabwe’s number 10 and 11, Tendai Chatara and Muzarabani combined for a last wicket stand of 67 runs. Muzarabani cracked seven boundaries and two sixes in his entertaining cameo. At the top of the order, Innocent Kaia made just two runs while Tadiwanashe Marumani was run out on 16. Wessly Madhevere was sent back to the hut for nought with Craig Ervine and Sean Williams managing 23 and 13 respectively.   Zimbabwe's innings came to an end on 38.5 overs after Chatara fell for 15 runs having faced 20 deliveries. Aamer Jamal took 5 for 75 for the tourists while Shahnawaz Dahani claimed two scalps. Mir Hamza and Mehran Mumtaz shared two wickets. After Zimbabwe posted 235 all out, Muzarabani returned, ball in hand and was equally destructive as he had been with the bat. He rid Zimbabwe of Muhammad Hurraira (35), Kamran Ghulam (0), Hussain Talat (10) and Shahnawaz Dhani whom he bowled for 15 runs. Zimbabwe Select suffocated Pakistan A's innings from the start and the tourist never recovered with Sean Williams (2 for 16), Victor Nyauchi (2 for 43) and Chatara (1 for 19) also got in among the wickets. Teams Zimbabwe A:  Tadiwanashe Marumani, Innocent Kaia, Wessly Madhevere, Craig Ervine, Sean Williams, Ryan Burl, Clive Madande, Wellington Masakadza, Victor Nyauchi, Tendai Chatara Pakistan A: Imran Butt, Saim Ayub, Muhammad Hurraira, Kamran Ghulam, Hussain Talat, Haseebullah, Mubasir Khan, Amir Jamal, Mehran Mumtaz, Mir Hamza, Shahnawaz Dhani