This column has repeatedly stated that our appreciation of the Bible should rest in the rightly divided Word of Truth. We don’t just hear something in passing and run with it without getting the whole picture. Reading the Bible for ourselves and checking helps us to avoid multiplying error. Bible students should be dilligent. Let's look at some examples. Please read carefully. Here's an example of someone who ran to report news to King David. The surprising thing is that Ahimaaz had no enough news. Let's read 2 Samuel 18:19-30, "Then said Ahimaaz the son of Zadok, Let me now run, and bear the king tidings, how that the Lord hath avenged him of his enemies. [20] And Joab said unto him, Thou shalt not bear tidings this day, but thou shalt bear tidings another day: but this day thou shalt bear no tidings, because the king's son is dead.   [21] Then said Joab to Cushi, Go tell the king what thou hast seen. And Cushi bowed himself unto Joab, and ran. [22] Then said Ahimaaz the son of Zadok yet again to Joab, But howsoever, let me, I pray thee, also run after Cushi. And Joab said, Wherefore wilt thou run, my son, seeing that thou hast no tidings ready? [23] But howsoever, said he, let me run. And he said unto him, Run. Then Ahimaaz ran by the way of the plain, and overran Cushi. [24] And David sat between the two gates: and the watchman went up to the roof over the gate unto the wall, and lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold a man running alone. [25] And the watchman cried, and told the king. And the king said, If he be alone, there is tidings in his mouth. And he came apace, and drew near. [26] And the watchman saw another man running: and the watchman called unto the porter, and said, Behold another man running alone. And the king said, He also bringeth tidings. [27] And the watchman said, Me thinketh the running of the foremost is like the running of Ahimaaz the son of Zadok. And the king said, He is a good man, and cometh with good tidings. [28] And Ahimaaz called, and said unto the king, All is well. And he fell down to the earth upon his face before the king, and said, Blessed be the Lord thy God, which hath delivered up the men that lifted up their hand against my lord the king. [29] And the king said, Is the young man Absalom safe? And Ahimaaz answered, When Joab sent the king's servant, and me thy servant, I saw a great tumult, but I knew not what it was. [30] And the king said unto him, Turn aside, and stand here. And he turned aside, and stood still."   Ahimaaz saw what happened in the battle but his information was limited. We need complete message and full persuasion to run with the Gospel of Christ or the Good News of Jesus Christ. No to half baked tidings. We read further in 2 Samuel 18:31-33, "And, behold, Cushi came; and Cushi said, Tidings, my lord the king: for the Lord hath avenged thee this day of all them that rose up against thee. [32] And the king said unto Cushi, Is the young man Absalom safe? And Cushi answered, The enemies of my lord the king, and all that rise against thee to do thee hurt, be as that young man is. [33] And the king was much moved, and went up to the chamber over the gate, and wept: and as he went, thus he said, O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! would God I had died for thee, O Absalom, my son, my son!" While Cushi had all the details, the news wasn't sweet to David. Absalom was King David's son. Absalom led a rebellion against his father. Though they went to war, King David ordered his men not to harm his son. It would not be a sweet victory to him. Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy, To the only wise God our Saviour, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and ever. Amen. Grace and peace be multiplied to you through knowledge.