CASTLE Lager Premier Soccer League (PSL) newcomers Sheasham failed to show up for their match against Caps United which was scheduled for Mandava Stadium in Zvishavane yesterday. Gweru-based Sheasham did not travel to Zvishavane where they were supposed to host Caps United in a week 10 fixture.   The Green Machine were given access to the venue and they conducted their warm-up. They waited for 45 minutes before they were dismissed by the match commissioner. The move by Sheasham is in protest over the PSL's decision to ban their home ground Bata Stadium. The move could, however, prove costly as they now face punishment that will include a 3-0 walkover result and a fine.   Sheasham chairperson Reginald Chidawanyika told NewsDay Sport yesterday that they could not travel due to financial reasons. On Friday, Chidawanyika wrote to the PSL seeking match postponement. The letter read: "We hereby apply for a postponement of our match with Caps United scheduled for Mandava Stadium on the 21st of May 2023. The major reason for seeking the postponement is that we are unable to secure the financial resources to host the match at such a shortest of notices. "It is instructive to repeat the historical background of events in order for you to appreciate the basis upon which we are seeking a postponement of the match. Firstly, as you are aware our home ground Bata Stadium was homologated by the FIB following an inspection.   "The approval of Bata Stadium by FIB came with conditions that we had to fulfil within the specified timelines. Following the homologation, we were able to host Highlanders FC on the 7th of May 2023 without any incident at Bata Stadium." However, PSL remained adamant that the match should be played on Sunday at Mandava Stadium. By absconding, they breached Order 18.1 and 18.2 of the PSL's Standing Orders and Rules which state: "Every club shall be obliged to honour every league fixture as directed by the League General Secretariat. "Any club without just cause that fails to fulfil its fixture obligation in respect of any league match on the appointed date or dates shall be deemed guilty of bringing the game of football into disrepute and shall be subject to a Disciplinary hearing." Interestingly, PSL had offered US$2 000 to Sheasham as a cushion to assist them in meeting the costs for the game. "We appreciate that your club is determined not to bring the football league into disrepute and the league is currently holding your security deposit of USD 4 000 which you paid when you joined the PSL at the beginning of the season," PSL CEO Kenny Ndebele wrote to Sheasham.. “In this regard we will be releasing part of this security deposit in the sum of USD 2 000 to assist you in fulfilling this fixture. The fixture will not be postponed.” Sheasham, however, turned down the offer saying it was not enough for them to fulfil the match. Club owner Clever Mandaza wrote to PSL saying: "Thank you very much for your letter of the even date. We appreciate the League’s effort and the gesture in trying to capacitate us to travel to Mandava tomorrow for the match against Caps United and booking the stadium for us. "However, the amount offered by yourselves to us is inadequate and looking at the logistics that are involved for a match of this extend. "We humbly request that the match be moved to any day mid-week convenient to you in Mandava Stadium, looking at the time there is for us to raise the balance thereof to host the match. We remain determined not only to fulfil the match but also to compete in the match."