Highlanders . . . . . . 0 Dynamos . . . . . . . . . .  0   It is quite unusual to describe a goalless stalemate as a thriller, but this best describes how the Highlanders and Dynamos blockbuster played out in front of a full house at Barbourfields Stadium yesterday. In the end, both coaches Jose Baltemar Brito and Herbert Maruwa were happy with the outcome of the match as they felt their teams had left it all in the field. "It was a good game from both teams. In the first half, we got our own chances but in the second half, Highlanders managed to create their chances,” said DeMbare coach Maruwa.   “Overall, I’m happy with the performance of the players. It was 50/50, the better team of the day was supposed to win but today it was good football from both teams." Brito said the fans that paid to watch the match, earned ful value for their money. “To me, I can say it’s a point gained than two points lost. My assessment is that it was a beautiful game. These are the kind of games, tactically and technically that bring people to watch football in Zimbabwe. The game brought emotions. It was an open game. Either team could have scored. Everyone should be happy to have been here to watch the game,” Brito said. Highlanders made two changes to the team that was held 1-1 by Cranbone Bullets last week. Top goalscorer Calvin Chigonero started upfront ahead of Lynoth Chikuhwa, while Melikhaya Ncube replaced Godfrey Makaruse. Chigonero was a constant thorn in the flesh for the DeMbare defence until he was taken out for Stanley Ngala.   Dynamos started with the same team that drew 0-0 against Manica Diamonds, with a packed midfield. Junior Makunike, who put up an impressive performance in his hometown, was partnered by Tanaka Shandirwa and Donald Mudadi. Issa Sadiki and Tendai Matindife were occupying the wide channels. Jayden Baraki cut a lone figure upfront against the imposing Bosso defence well marshalled by Peter Muduhwa and Mbongeni Ndlovu. The match kicked off at a frantic pace, but the best opportunity in the first half fell to Elshamar Farasi, in the 19th minute. He received a pass from the marauding Chigonero but his effort hit the inside of the post with Dynamos goalkeeper Mvula a beaten man. In the 30th minute, Donald Mudadi almost headed Dynamos into the lead but he was blocked by Ncube who had to receive medical attention for a head injury. At the other end, Andrew Mbeba also missed a header from an Archiford Faira cross with Mvula badly exposed. In the second half, the introduction of Emmanuel Paga and Eli Ilunga swung the pendulum to Dynamos way as they kept the Bosso defence on their toes. Brighton Manhire brilliantly stopped a Sadika low cross in the 61st minute with Paga lurking on the blind side with the DeMbare fans already up on their feet. The battle between Bosso's best players on the day, Faira and Sadiki on the left side was intriguing. It was the kind of stuff that makes fans pay to watch football. In the end, both teams settled for a goalless stalemate. Bosso now lead the PSL standings, whilst Dynamos are still searching for their first victory from open play at BF since 2014. Teams Highlanders  Ariel Sibanda, Brighton Manhire, Darlington Mukuli, Mbongeni Ndlovu, Peter Muduhwa, McKinnon Mushore, Calvin Chigonero, Elshamar Farasi, Archiford Faira, Andrew Mbeba, Melikhaya Ncube. Dynamos Tymon Mvula, Junior Makunike, Emmanuel Jalai, Elvis Moyo, Kelvin Moyo, Donald Dzvinyai, Donald Mudadi, Tanaka Shandirwa, Jayden Baraki, Issa Sadiki, Tendai Matindife.