THE Institute of Corporate Directors of Zimbabwe (ICDZ) has honoured the 40 under 40 most prominent young leaders who are excelling in nearly every area of the economy. The event, which ran under the theme Rewarding Valiant Leadership in Volatile Times, was held in Harare on Wednesday.   This year’s event also saw 18 professional directors graduating under ICDZ. Speaking at the event, ICDZ chairperson Phineas Bvaka said the organisation combined these two events in an effort to celebrate and recognise good governance, entrepreneurship and exemplary leadership. “Given the current scenario, expectations have become extremely high for any business leader to not only meet them, but to exceed them and it starts with fully understanding your fundamental role and the skills required to effectively keep your organisation on track,” Bvaka said.   “It is against this background that the ICDZ partnered the Professional Director Canada to offer the globally recognised professional director certification programme.” The 40 under 40 was initiated by ICDZ as an effort to recognise and appreciate exceptional young business leaders who have contributed towards the growth of the economy. “These young leaders have exhibited innovativeness in the midst of challenging times currently gripping the nation, they seized and pursued commercial opportunities that have made the organisations realise sustainable growth and they've evidently committed to make Zimbabwean upper-middle-income economy by 2030,” Bvaka added. Also speaking at the event, Rwanda’s ambassador to Zimbabwe, James Musoni said he was hopeful that ICDZ would extend the professional director programme to all the countries in Africa, especially to Rwanda.   “It is a wonderful initiative and we will be happy to work with you and to see how we can extend it to Rwanda,” Musoni said. “I am presently informed that the 40 under 40 were drawn from across all sectors, including telecommunications, agriculture, mining, the arts, non-governmental organisations, banking, manufacturing, construction and health. On the other hand, the professional director graduates successfully undertook a rigorous two months governance programme, including an examination and thereby earning the designation professional director.” The programme was designed to sharpen the skills and competencies required for one to be an effective board member. Among the winners of the 40 under 40 were Sharon Bwanya from Masawara Group, Chengetai Mujakachi from Engen Petroleum, Godfrey Koti from the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority, Kelvin Sabao from Corporate Assist Advisory, Miranda Khumalo from Atherstone & Cook law firm, Cynthia Mataruse from Stanbic Bank, Rumbidzai Hondora from British American Tobacco and George Manyaya from Zimbabwe National Road Administration. Special mention was made of Agriculture deputy minister Vangelis Haritatos and permanent secretary John Basera.