CRANBORNE BULLETS . . . (1) 1 GREEN FUEL . . . . . .  .   . . . .  . . . 0   Cranborne Bullets coach Nesbert Saruchera has bemoaned the country's ban from international football, which he said was killing careers of local footballers. He was speaking after his side beat Green Fuel at the National Sports Stadium yesterday to move out of the relegation zone. Kingsley Mureremba's 25th minute goal from close range was enough to hand Saruchera's men their second consecutive win.   Saruchera said some of his players were good enough to play at the highest level, but were being deprived of the chance to showcase their talent because of the ban. He singled out Malvern Mudzuka for praise after another outstanding performance from the midfielder. “The boy is always like this. He is very exciting and we are hoping international football is back in Zimbabwe so that he can also play for Zimbabwe. He is very talented and disciplined as well,” Saruchera said. Zimbabwe was banned by Fifa from participating in international football following the decision by the Sports and Recreation Commission (SRC) to dissolve the Zifa board led by Felton Kamambo.   A delegation from the world governing body visited the country last month where they meet with stakeholders and reiterated that Zimbabwe will only be readmitted back into international football when they comply with set conditions. Saruchera said his team deserved the win after they dominated the first half and could have been out of sight at halftime had Mureremba converted from a one-on-one situation with Green Fuel goalkeeper David Bizabani on 43rd minute. "Our performance is always good, we are a very good passing team and I'm excited we managed to create a number of chances but we managed to convert just one which is not enough. We are hoping to score more goals in the next game." Victory, which was their second of the season after they beat Simba Bhora by the same scoreline last week, moved the army side from the basement of the log onto 14th position with eight points. "It's too early to say we have turned the corner. Last season we managed to avoid the chop, so our objective this year is to do better. The position of the team currently doesn't mean anything, it's too early. I'm really excited we managed to collect three points today." Green Fuel assistant coach Innocent Chogugudza admitted his team had played second fiddle to the hosts, especially in the first half. The visiting coach Rodwell Dhlakama was ejected from the technical bench by league officials at the start of the second half because he is yet to be accredited. Dhlakama took charge in the first half yesterday before he made way for Chogugudza. Teams Cranborne Bullets: V Jabangwe, X Janatana, P Mutasa, C Charakupa, M Mushangwe, E Manokore, V Mhandu (H Chimutimunzeve, 65'), T Chibunyu (A Ngwenya, 65'), M Mudzuka (N Munezi, 90'), K Mureremba, S Munhira (N Kupara, 77') Green Fuel: D Bizabani, M Phiri, T Gora, R Chinemo, R Uchena, L Genti (B Sibanda, 48'), X Moyo, C Dhuwa, A Nyamajiwa, N Ndlovu (C Mukanhairi, 78'), W Mapuwa (G Chikengezha, 49')