FORMER Dynamos utility player Godknows Murwira believes understanding the expectations of a big club has helped him settle quickly at Caps United. He has featured in all the club’s first eight matches ahead of the tricky home clash against Hwange on Sunday. Murwira was the hero for the Green Machine last Saturday when he delivered a brilliant cross into the box which was turned in by Yadah defender Brain Kadamanja to give the team a late win.   After the match, Murwira received a big hug from coach Lloyd Chitembwe for his performance. Caps United are enjoying a solid start to their Castle Lager Premier Soccer League season and are currently second on the log after eight matches. Murwira is one of the several new signings at the club who have impressed.   “When you join another club, a giant like Caps United, you know what is expected, working hard and playing according to the instructions from the coach,” he told journalists yesterday. “Whenever you are given a task or are playing any opponent we are expected to win. We are bigger than Hwange, but it’s not going to be an easy game so we just have to fight and give the fans what they want.” Murwira said playing all the games so far had helped him improve as a player. “Like the coach said it’s not all the games that we play our best but playing all the games help you to improve from the previous game. You know what you need to work on to help the team win. I will be working on what you did wrong in the previous game,” he said.   Murwira is one of the top players who crossed the divide from Dynamos to Caps United but was unfortunate that his team was on the losing side when he featured in the Harare derby against his former side two Sundays ago.  Makepekepe bounced back to winning ways last weekend against Yadah FC and will be looking to kick on from there. This time around the rival is Hwange who have done well so far in the top-tier, coming from Division One. Hwange have not beaten Caps United in the competition since 2014 and will be looking to remedy that anomaly. The two teams have met nine times with the Harare giants winning four of the matches, while five have ended in draws. Chitembwe is happy with the progress of the team so far in the season and is expecting more. “So far so good, but obviously I think we need to keep improving and developing as individuals and as a team. I said to them in training that last weekend’s game was very important for us because it gave me an opportunity to see and explore more on the team,” he said. “In football it is practically impossible to win all matches playing so well. Last week’s match was a typical example of the team not playing so well, but we got what we really wanted, which is a win. It goes on to show the level of mental aptitude that the boys have. “