SIMBA BHORA . . . . . (1) 1 BULAWAYO CHIEFS .(1) 1   BULAWAYO Chiefs yesterday missed out on an opportunity to climb to the top of the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League after they were held by Simba Bhora who themselves stretched their winless run to five matches. In a game of very few chances, Farau Matare connected a Billy Veremu cross to give the visitors a 35th minute lead at the National Sports Stadium. The lead lasted just seven minutes though, as a Blessing Moyo freekick somehow sneaked through the legs of goalkeeper Khulekani Dube.   Chiefs came into the match on the back of four straight victories and a victory yesterday could have catapulted the inform side to the top of the log standings. The point gained only took them to fourth position on the log standings with 16 points, one behind leaders Ngezi Platinum Stars after 10 rounds of matches. Coach Lizwe Sweswe said his team wanted the win, but was content with the draw. “It was a fair match, and a fair result. Both teams played well and overall I'm happy about my team getting a point away from home,” said Sweswe who refused to blame his goalkeeper for the howler that handed Simba Bhora the equaliser.   Simba Bhora are on 14th position with 11 points and their coach Tonderai Ndiraya is beginning to get worried about his team's failure to collect maximum points. Yesterday's draw was the fifth straight match that they have failed to win a match in a run that includes two losses and three draws. “It was a difficult match, and I'm a bit disappointed because we couldn't collect maximum points at home. At the same time I have to give it to my players for the manner they fought today against a team that is in top form. We showed some bit of character after going behind and fought to come back into the match,” Ndiraya said. “We have not been scoring goals of late and it's a bit worrying. Goals have not been flowing for us because some of our top strikers are injured. “It's not been easy for us in the league but I think we have done well thus far although it's not exactly where we really wanted to be. We are pushing and hopefully in the games to come we can push to the limit and get the much-needed win,” added Ndiraya whose men face Caps United in their next encounter. Chiefs had a chance to go ahead early in the second half but Danny Phiri's long range effort missed the target by a few inches. At the other end, Vassili Kawe's speculative cross threatened to drop behind Chiefs goalkeeper who had to stretch at full strength to tip the ball over with the home supporters already on their feet ready to celebrate a goal. A nervy final few minutes could have seen either side net a winner, but a draw, as Sweswe said, was a fair result. Teams  Simba Bhora: S Chinani, B Moyo (H Chikosa, 78'), V Musarurwa, W Tafa, P Jaure, T Chipunza, V Kawe, S Maramwidze, I Nyanhi (A Manenji, 56'), K Mangami (T Balakasi, 65'), N Mangezi (A Mandinyenya, 56') Bulawayo Chiefs: K Dube, A Ncube (M Gasela, 33'), W Stima, M Mkolo, N Ncube, B Rusinga, D Phiri, M Msebe, B Veremu (O Chirinda, 78'), F Moyo, F Matare (N Gama, 87')