AUSTRALIA-HEADQUARTERED Invictus Energy has awarded Polaris Natural Resource Development a contract to provide 2D seismic acquisition services for its phase two exploration campaign in the Cabora Bassa Basin. Polaris is Canada’s longest standing seismic company and has conducted over 1 200 seismic projects since 1996.   Invictus recently confirmed the presence of “light oil, gas-condensate and helium” from Mukuyu-1 compositional analysis. In a market update on Wednesday, the company said the seismic survey would cover a minimum of 400-line kilometres in the eastern portion of exclusive prospecting orders (EPO) 1848 and 1849 to mature multiple leads along the proven play to the east of, and on trend with Mukuyu. It will also cover additional leads along the highly prospective basin margin play.   “I am pleased to announce that Polaris Natural Resource Development has been awarded the contract to carry out an infill 2D seismic survey as part of our phase two exploration campaign in Cabora Bassa,” Invictus managing director Scott Macmillan said. “Polaris carried out the successful CB21 2D seismic survey in 2021, which helped refine the drilling programme for the play opening Mukuyu-1 well that proved a working hydrocarbon system in the Cabora Bassa Basin and the presence of light oil, gas-condensate, and helium. “The CB21 seismic survey also firmed up the potential for multiple stacked hydrocarbon bearing zones in the basin margin play, which has been independently estimated to hold nearly 1,2 billion barrels in prospective oil resources.” Macmillan said this fresh round of high resolution 2D seismic data “is aimed at maturing a number of already identified leads mapped within our Cabora Bassa acreage to drillable prospects, providing further upside potential to our exciting exploration portfolio.”   The leads, mapped on legacy seismic data, demonstrate amplitude support and anomalies consistent with hydrocarbon bearing intervals encountered in Mukuyu-1, he said. “Preparations also continue to advance for the Mukuyu-2 appraisal well, which will look to build on the success of the Mukuyu-1 well and confirm a commercial discovery. “I look forward to providing further updates as we continue work to unlock the potential of the Cabora Bassa Basin.” Polaris chief executive officer and president Bill Mooney said: “Polaris is pleased to extend our relationship with Invictus Energy at the world-class Cabora Bassa Project. We will again be deploying the industry leading STRYDE nodal system to provide high-resolution data with the lightest seismic footprint possible.” Modern 2D seismic will likely allow the company to mature a number of these leads to drillable prospects, providing additional running room and adding materially to the company’s Cabora Bassa Basin portfolio. Polaris has commenced mobilising the remaining seismic equipment and personnel to Harare to undergo preparation for the acquisition before deploying to the field. The seismic campaign will incorporate the company’s experience from the successful CB21 seismic survey acquisition, which was also carried out by Polaris, helping to inform the drilling of the play opening Mukuyu-1/ST1 wells that confirmed a working hydrocarbon system in the Cabora Bassa Basin. The phase two seismic survey will be conducted with a minimal environmental footprint and will utilise existing roads and tracks wherever possible. Polaris introduced the first “low impact seismic crew” into Africa in 2008 and has conducted over 25 projects in east Africa.