MR World Zimbabwe Chris Ncube (19) is set to represent the nation at the Man of the World International Global Pageant set for June 16 in Manilla, Philippines. The teen model, from Beitbridge and a former member of the Zimbabwe Junior Parliament, is scheduled to leave for Manila on June 7.   The Man of the World International Global pageant was established in 2017 and emphasises the importance of education and career development. The pageant is being organised by the Prime Event Productions Philippines Foundation, which also organises the annual Misters of Filipinas pageant. Ncube told NewsDay Life & Style that his trip is being made possible by a few Zimbabwean businessmen and women.   The model is happy to be representing the country in the Philippines without going to contest for position. “I came across this international pageant on social media, and as I was going through this year’s contestants’ list, I realised that no one was representing Zimbabwe and I thought to myself I could be capable of placing high in this competition,” he said. “Pageantry is well known mostly on the female end of this dynamic industry and I just thought this may open opportunities for the Zimbabwean boy child.” The model said his job would be to wear different attires and walk on the runway and answer a few questions.   “The pageant requires an individual with high intellectual capacity as they have a lot of interviews during the course of the competition,” he said. Ncube, a former Falcon College student who finished his studies last year, said he had been offered a place to study law at the University of Chichester in the United Kingdom. He advised youths to do something to better their lives before it’s too late. “Time does not wait for anyone and the advice I have for people of my age is do something as time is ticking,” he said. “To secure a comfortable future, you need to do something today, be it in school, training centres and sports or anything that gets one closer to the tomorrow they envision.”